Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox.  Sign up here. 
  Chicago  Mayor Lori Lightfoot said Tuesday that  Illinois ’ coronavirus stay-at-home order might remain in place well into May or even June, according to local reports.
  “April 30 is no longer, I think, a viable date,” she said at a briefing with local journalists, according to  Fox 32 Chicago .
  Gov. J.B. Pritzker  had previously extended the state’s shutdown until  at least that date  – and Lightfoot said she expects to see it extended again.
  CLICK HERE FOR FULL CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE 
  Illinois had seen the sixth-most confirmed coronavirus cases out of the 50 states with more than 33,000 as of Wednesday afternoon, according to Johns Hopkins University. More than 1,400 people have died in the state.
  Dozens of governors have ordered stay-at-home restrictions, prompting protests in some states, Illinois included. The goal of the shutdowns is to reduce the spread of COVID-19.
  CORONAVIRUS SHUTDOWN: WHAT STATES HAVE SEEN PROTESTS AGAINST STAY-AT-HOME ORDERS 
  But an additional result has been a snarled economy and the closures of nonessential businesses – putting millions of Americans out of work for weeks and causing unemployment claims to skyrocket.
  President Trump  and governors from around the U.S. have been rolling out plans to reopen the economy – generally in phases as certain goals are met along the way.
  "To preserve the health of Americans, we must preserve the health of our economy," President Trump said at a White House press briefing last week. “We are not opening all at once, but one careful step at a time.”
  For his part, Illinois Gov. Pritzker said that the state would partner with several  regional neighbors  to coordinate the reopening of their economies in the Midwest. That group includes Michigan, Ohio, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Indiana and Kentucky.
  The governors said they are weighing the following factors as they inch toward lifting coronavirus restrictions: control over the rate of new infections, enhanced testing and tracing abilities, sufficient health care capacity to handle a possible resurgence of the virus and “best practices” for workplace social distancing.
  CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP 
  Despite the coordination, Pritzker said the states are not bound to take the same steps toward reopening at the same time.
  “Over time, people will go back to work, restaurants will reopen, and things will go back to normal,” he said.
  Fox News’ Tyler Olson contributed to this report. 
 