The novel   coronavirus continues to spread  in the U.S. Cities and states are restricting large gatherings of people, and even presidential hopefuls are canceling rallies. Here is a list of events and destinations that have been affected by the outbreak.
  On Sunday, Governor Charlie Baker has banned gatherings of 25 people or more. Restaurants are to be take-out only through April 17.
  Governors Cuomo (NY), Lamont (CT) and Murphy (NJ) announced their respective states will be shutting down all movie theaters, gyms and casinos temporarily. All restaurants and bars are restricted to take-out only.
  The NBA has abruptly  suspended  its season "until further notice." The decision came after a Utah Jazz player tested positive for COVID-19 ahead of Utah's game against the Oklahoma City Thunder. That game was immediately canceled.
  At the time the NBA decided to suspend the season, a plan was not yet in place for when the league would resume.
  The PGA Tour  canceled  the Players Championship after the first round and all tournaments until the Masters.
  The Masters Tournament has been postponed, the chairman of the Augusta National Golf Club  announced  on Friday. Fred Ridley, Chairman of Augusta National Golf Club, said the Masters will  now take place "at some later date."
  The NHL  announced  it is pausing the 2019-20 season, effective immediately. Commissioner Gary Bettman said the league will try to resume games "as soon as it is appropriate and prudent," and is hopeful the stoppage will not affect the Stanley Cup Playoffs.
  Major League Baseball delayed the start of its regular season until May at the earliest. The league  said in a statement  on March 16 the move was made in accordance with recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention against gatherings of 50 people or more for eight weeks.
  The MLS season has been put on hold. Only two games into the season, the league announced it is  suspending play for 30 days . 
  The United States Soccer Federation  announced  it would cancel upcoming men's and women's national team matches in March and April. The statement said the majority of the Youth National Team and Extended National Team camps that were planned through the end of April would also be canceled. 
  The NCAA has  canceled  the 2020 Division I men's and women's basketball tournaments. 
  The XFL has  suspended play , effective immediately. Prior to the announcement, the new football league said the March 15 game between the Los Angeles Wildcats and the Seattle Dragons would take place without fans. 
  Thursday, the Association of Tennis Professionals and the Women's Tennis Association, the governing bodies for both men's and women's professional tennis respectively, announced they are both  suspending ongoing tennis tours  due to health concerns over COVID-19. The ATP has declared a six-week suspension of play, meaning no tournaments will be held up to the week of April 20.
  The English  Premier League has postponed  its season until at least April 4. The decision was reached after the league called an  emergency meeting . The league had previously  postponed the Manchester City vs. Arsenal match  after Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta  tested positive  for coronavirus. 
  Several Premier League players have also tested positive for the virus. USMNT midfielder Christian Pulisic and his Chelsea teammates are  in self-quarantine  after a teammate tested positive. Several players from Leicester City and Manchester City have also tested positive.
  CBS Sports  reports  there is a possibility that the Premier League 2019-20 season may not be completed. Greg Clarke, chairman of the Football Association which regulates the sport in England reportedly said he does not think it's "feasible" the season will be completed. 
  In Spain, all La Liga soccer matches have been  suspended  for the next two matchdays. 
  Italy's top soccer league Serie A played several matches "behind closed doors" in empty stadiums. But the country has now  suspended all sporting events  until April 3 at the earliest. 
  A defender for top club Juventus has  tested positive  for the virus.
  France's Ligue 1 and Ligue 2 have  suspended all matches until further notice . Prior to Friday morning's announcement, the top French soccer leagues had been playing all matches in empty stadiums, a plan they had intended to see through April 15. 
  Germany's Bundesliga teams will also play their matches in empty stadiums this weekend.  No plans have been announced to suspend  play at this time.
  Bundesliga club Paderborn announced that  coach Steffen Baumgart is being tested for the virus  and second division club Hannover 96 has two players in quarantine after testing positive for COVID-19.
  UEFA, the European governing body for soccer,  postponed  of Europe's two largest soccer tournaments. Both the  Champions League  and  Europa League  competitions are being postponed due to the spread of the coronavirus. 
  The Champions League round of 16 was set to finish next week and quarterfinals slated to begin on April 7. After the announcement, it is now unclear when play will resume.
  The opening race of the Formula 1 racing season has been canceled. The Australian Grand Prix has also been canceled, race organizers announced. 
  The NHRA  announced  Gatornationals, the annual drag racing event, was also canceled. The news comes after a member of the McLaren Racing Team tested positive for COVID-19, the statement said. 
  NASCAR  announced  they would postpone race events at Atlanta Motor Speedway and Homestead-Miami Speedway over the next two weeks. NASCAR had originally announced it would race without fans in attendance and only drivers, crews and other necessary personnel, but have now reversed that decision.
  Organizers of the annual music festival have pushed it back by six months at the direction of health authorities. Goldenvoice  announced  the rescheduling of the 2020 music festival.
  Coachella will now take place over two weekends in October: October 9 to 11 and October 16 to 18. Stagecoach, which highlights country music, will take place on October 23 to 25.
  Following the announcement, headliners Dan + Shay took to Twitter to announce that they  would not be able to make the rescheduled dates  due to their planned tour. 
  Coachella draws up to a quarter-million people to Indio, California, every year. This year's lineup is set to include Frank Ocean, Rage Against the Machine, Travis Scott, Lana Del Rey and Thom Yorke. 
  Austin mayor Steve Adler canceled South by Southwest, the preeminent film, music and media conference that was set to begin in one week. The move comes after weeks of public pressure, during which the conference lost major attendees including Facebook, Twitter, Intel, Mashable, Netflix, Amazon and TikTok. More than 50,000 people had petitioned for the event to be called off.
  "There was no acceptable path forward that would mitigate the risk to our community," said Dr. Mark Escott, Austin's interim health authority. He noted that the number of visitors attending SXSW and their many geographic origins would have created a crisis situation.
  No cases of COVID-19 have been confirmed in Travis County, which houses Austin, Escott said. There are at least six cases in the Houston area, the Associated Press reports.
  Miami's Ultra Music Festival, which was scheduled to take place March 20 to 22, has been called off until next year, the Miami Herald  reported .
  The annual songwriting festival featuring both amateur and professional composers  has been canceled . Tin Pan South Songwriting Festival organizers cited both the recent  deadly tornado  as well as coronavirus concerns. 
  This year's Met Gala has been  officially postponed  due to the coronavirus pandemic, the event's co-chair Anna Wintour confirmed on Monday.
  Broadway is going dark  due to coronavirus concerns as New York governor Andrew Cuomo  announced  gatherings with 500 people or more are no longer permitted in the Empire State. While the New York ban was set to go into effect Friday at 5 p.m., the Broadway shows shutdown began at 5 p.m. Thursday and will run through April 12.
  In a  statement  Thursday, Tribeca Film Festival announced postponement based on Governor Cuomo's announcement. The festival was supposed to take place April 15 - 26, co-founder Jane Rosenthal said on the festival group's website.
  The National Association of Theatre Owners canceled CinemaCon 2020, originally scheduled for March 30 - April 2 in Las Vegas, the organizers said in a  statement posted . The convention features distributors and exhibitors presenting upcoming films as a preview for the summer movie season.
  Sony, Paramount, STX, Disney, and Universal have all delayed the release of several feature films. Some of the movies include  F9 ,  No Time to Die , Lovebirds,  Mulan ,  The New Mutants ,  Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings , A Quiet Place Part II, and  Peter Rabbit 2: The Runaway .
  Individual musicians are also calling off their tours. Pearl Jam has  pushed back  the North American leg of its tour, which was scheduled to start March 13 in Toronto. (Shows in Germany are still scheduled to proceed, starting June 23.) 
  Pop singer  Avril Lavigne  has  canceled multiple tour dates  throughout Europe in March and April. She took to  Twitter to tell her fans  "You're in my thoughts and prayers and we are hoping to announce rescheduled shows soon." 
  American pop-punk band Green Day postponed their "Hella Mega" tour dates in Asia "due to the health + travel concerns with coronavirus," the group said on  Twitter . "We know it sucks, as we were looking forward to seeing you all, but hold on to your tickets we'll be announcing the new dates very soon."
  The country singer's "Friends and Heroes" tour dates from March 12 to March 21 have been postponed and will be rescheduled.
  K-pop group BTS, one of the most popular boy bands in the world,  canceled  April tour dates in Seoul citing concerns about the coronavirus. Instead of starting its world tour in Seoul, the band will hold its first show in Santa Clara, California, later in April. Fellow singers Taeyeon and NCT also dropped planned shows for Singapore.
  The Boston Marathon, scheduled for April 20, was also  postponed .  The marathon has been rescheduled for September 14.
  The White House has  called off this year's Easter Egg Roll  as public health officials across the country implement new measures to limit the spread of the coronavirus. The annual event, which takes place on the South Lawn, was scheduled to take place April 13, but was canceled "out of an abundance of caution," the White House said.
  The Tokyo Disney resort said this week it would close until March 15 due to the coronavirus  outbreak . Disney theme parks in Shanghai have been  closed since January 24  and Hong Kong Disney attractions since January 25.
  Disneyland was granted an exception from the state of California advisory to postpone or cancel all gatherings of 250 people or more. After initially deciding to stay open, Disneyland  announced  it would shut down for the remainder of March. This is only the fourth time in history the California park has closed. 
  Officials said that Disney's three hotels at Disneyland — the Disneyland Hotel, Paradise Pier and the Grand Californian — will remain open until Monday, March 16 to give current guests enough time to make travel arrangements.
  A few hours after announcing Disneyland's closing, Disney announced that the theme parks at Walt Disney World Resort in Orlando, Florida, and the Disneyland Paris Resort will close starting at the close of business on March 15. Disney Cruise Line will suspend all new departures beginning March 14. 
  On its website,  Disney World  says those with tickets for days the park is closed will be extended to use any date through December 15, 2020, and annual passes will be extended by the number of days the parks are closed, March 16, 2020, through March 31, 2020.
  CBS Miami reports  that Universal Orlando will be closing its two parks and water park. The closures will last until the end of March. However, the company said Universal's hotels and CityWalk will remain open.
  Universal Studios Hollywood also announced they would be closed to the public,  according to  CBS Los Angeles.
  SeaWorld  announced  they are  temporarily closing  all our theme parks through the end of March due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
  E3, the world's biggest gaming convention, has been called off,  CNET reported . The Entertainment Software Association, which organizes the annual event, said E3 will return in 2021, according to  GameSpot . The convention is a spotlight for major game companies to showcase their new products for the year. Last year, 66,000 people attended.
  Microsoft and Ubisoft will showcase their games online instead.
  "After careful consultation with our member  companies regarding the health and safety of everyone in our industry — our fans, our employees, our exhibitors and our longtime E3 partners — we have made the difficult decision to cancel E3 2020, scheduled for  June 9 to 11 in Los Angeles," the Entertainment Software Association said in a statement.  
  Facebook  canceled its annual marketing summit  scheduled for early March, which was expected to draw 4,000 people. Additionally, their annual F8 developers conference – scheduled for May 5 and 6 – has also been  canceled . Facebook called off the "in-person component" of its F8 developer conference, the company's biggest annual event, which typically brings thousands of software engineers to Silicon Valley. Facebook  said  it would replace the event with "locally hosted events, videos and live-streamed content." 
  Google  announced  that it has canceled its annual developers conference scheduled for May 12 to 14. The announcement came after the search giant had announced the cancellation of both its annual Cloud Next conference and Google News Initiative Summit, opting for a  virtual cloud conference  instead.
  Google called off its annual news conference, which would have brought together several hundred media-industry attendees in Sunnyvale, California, in late April. "We regret that we have to cancel our global Google News Initiative summit but the health and wellbeing of our guests is our number one priority," Richard Gingras, vice president of news, said in a statement.
  The MWC, the world's largest technology trade show, typically attracts some 100,000 people from around the world to Barcelona every February. But the conference organizers  called off this year's event  after high-profile attendees including Facebook and LG pulled out.
  "The global concern regarding the coronavirus outbreak, travel concern and other circumstances make it impossible for the GSMA to hold the event," the organization said in a  statement  on February 12. The show has been an annual event since 2006.
  After Gearbox, Blizzard Entertainment, and other big developers announced they  would not attend Games Developer Conference  in March, the conference was postponed. Organizers say that GDC will still happen in summer 2020, but it is unclear whether the developers that have dropped out will still attend at a later time this year. 
  Adobe canceled the in-person version of its eponymous Summit, scheduled for March 29 to April 2 in Las Vegas, the AP reported. More than 20,000 people were expected to attend the conference, which will be held as an "online experience" this year, according to the AP.
  Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory has called off all conferences and meetings set to take place on its campus on New York's Long Island for the coming month. "CSHL has canceled or postponed all upcoming scientific conferences and courses bringing participants to campus through April 5th, and will reevaluate future offerings on a rolling basis," the lab said in a  statement . The move affects at least four courses set to take place in that time period.
  The National Association of Realtors  canceled  two West Coast conferences this week: the Joint AE Institute, which was to take place  March 13 to 16 in San Diego, and the Realtor Broker Summit, scheduled for March 31 to April 1 in Los Angeles. The group said it is "considering alternatives" and could reschedule, relocate or redesign both conferences later in the year. 
  Comic-Con International's upcoming  WonderCon convention , originally scheduled for April 1 through April 12, has been postponed until a later date. In a  statement , organizers cited a California Department of Public Health recommendation that gatherings and events of more than 250 people should either be postponed or canceled. 
  The fate of San Diego Comic-Con, the largest comic book convention, has not yet been decided. It is currently scheduled to take place July 23 to 26. 
  The 189-nation International Monetary Fund and its sister lending  organization, the World Bank, announced that they will replace  their regular spring meetings in Washington with a "virtual format," the Associated Press reported.
  IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva and  World Bank President David Malpass issued a joint  statement  saying their decision was driven by "growing health concerns related to the virus." Separately, the World Bank has said it would make up to $12 billion  available globally to boost countries' response to the coronavirus, the  Financial Times  reported .
  The two global lending organizations typically hold a spring   meeting in Washington, where they both have their headquarters. This   year's meeting had been scheduled for the week of April 13.
  A major energy conference in Houston has been called off. IHS Markit has canceled CERAWeek 2020, an annual energy conference that was set to attract delegates from more than 80 countries to Houston starting March 9. 
  "We do this with  deep disappointment," the organizers said in a statement, adding that their top priority was the health and safety of conference participants.
  "We have spent the last several  weeks focused on this question,  established a medical partnership with  Houston Methodist Hospital, have  been in continuing dialogue with  experts on infectious disease, and  established an extensive protocol.  But the spread of COVID-19 is moving  quickly around the world," the organizers added.
  The Trump administration postponed a March 14 summit with the leaders of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations. President Trump invited ASEAN leaders to a meeting in Las Vegas  after he did not attend a November summit with the group in Bangkok, Reuters reported. 
  The annual Geneva International Motor Show was canceled as the Swiss government put an  immediate ban on all public and private events involving more  than 1,000 people, CNET  reported . The ban is expected to last until at least March 15.  
  "We are aware that this measure will have a significant impact on  public life," said Switzerland's interior minister, Alain Berset. 
  The event, originally slated to kick off March 5, was expected to generate up to 250 million Swiss francs (or $257 million) in spending, according to the AP.
  Switzerland has reported 15 confirmed cases of the new coronavirus. It borders northern Italy, which has seen the largest cluster of cases in Europe. Other affected events include the traditional Carnival procession in Basel, a ski marathon and several soccer matches, according to the AP.
 