
  
  Contamination in manufacturing the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's test for coronavirus caused weeks of delays that slowed the US response to the pandemic, multiple health officials told CNN. 
  The problem stemmed in part from the CDC not adhering to its own protocols, a Food and Drug Administration spokesperson said on Saturday.
  Some background:  In mid-February, the CDC was uncertain whether its test was malfunctioning due to a design issue or a manufacturing issue, two FDA officials said.
  That was concerning to the FDA. On Feb. 22, an FDA official traveled to Atlanta and spent the following days visiting CDC labs to try to sort out the testing problem.
  According to an administration official, the FDA determined contamination was most likely occurring during the manufacturing process and that the CDC had appeared to violate its own manufacturing protocols. 
  By Feb. 27 the FDA and the CDC worked together to shift the manufacturing of the CDC test kits to IDT, an outside manufacturer, two FDA officials said. Those test kits functioned correctly and were shipped to public health labs.
  “The test manufactured by IDT was distributed and has encountered no issues, thus supporting the conclusion that it was a manufacturing issue,” the FDA spokesperson said in the statement.
  The inspector general also announced that it is doing  its own investigation  of the test creation and expects to complete the review by 2021.
  The Washington Post was first to report the issue of contamination.
  
  
  New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy said that anyone comparing Covid-19 to the flu has taken the wrong "point of view."
  While there are flu outbreaks ever year and people die from the disease in New Jersey, it has not caused the "devastation" Covid-19 has, Murphy said. Data science and numbers prove "it’s a different enemy," he added.
  In just six weeks, roughly 4,000 people have died from Covid-19 in New Jersey, Murphy said. 
  Covid-19 is “more virulent” than the flu, and the hospitalization rate is far greater, he said.
  The state continues to aggressively ramp up its testing capabilities because "having a strong testing regime in place is critical for us moving forward as we begin to plan at some point – whenever that is – to reopen our state,” Murphy said. 
  New York Attorney General Letitia James issued official guidance to state banking institutions creditors and debt collectors making clear that financial relief provided by stimulus payments under the CARES act are exempt from garnishment under the state law.
  A release from the AG says these emergency stimulus payments were not designated as exempt from garnishment, allowing debt collectors to potentially benefit before consumers. 
  More than 1,900 Trump Organization employees around the US have been furloughed due to the coronavirus outbreak, according to public documents.
  Trump properties in Virginia, Nevada, Washington, DC, Illinois and New York have furloughed over 1,200 employees combined. In addition, 713 workers were furloughed at two properties in Florida.
  The organization said the furloughs are of non-essential employees.
  A spokesman for the Trump Organization did not respond to CNN's request for comment regarding the furloughs.
  The real estate publication the Real Deal first reported the furloughs.
  A 99-year-old British war veteran Tom Moore, who raised more than $29 million for the United Kingdom's National Health Service by walking 100 laps of his garden, has been invited as the “guest of honor” to preside over the opening of a new NHS Nightingale field hospital in northern England. 
  “I can’t think of a more worthy person to be the guest of honor at the opening of the new Nightingale Hospital in Harrogate next week,” he continued. 
  Some background:  Moore, who will turn 100 later this month, began a JustGiving fundraiser on April 8, initially hoping to raise £1,000 for NHS Charities Together, which raises funds for UK hospitals, including for staff, volunteers and patients affected by the coronavirus crisis. 
  The World War II veteran completed the challenge on Thursday after walking 10 laps of his garden each day, aided by a walking frame.
  Moore told CNN on Friday that he was "absolutely overwhelmed" by the money raised.
  There are at least 711,197 cases of coronavirus in the US and at least 37,309 people have died, according to Johns Hopkins University's  tally  of cases in the country.
  The totals includes cases from all 50 states, the District of Columbia and other US territories, as well as all repatriated cases. 
  
  
  The coronavirus pandemic appears to be “disproportionately” affecting black and ethnic minority communities in the United Kingdom, housing minister Robert Jenrick said Saturday. 
  Speaking at Downing Street’s daily coronavirus briefing, Jenrick said the government’s chief medical officer has commissioned work from Public Health England to “better understand” the issue. 
  “There are a number of reasons for this that have been posited, and it is right that we do thorough research swiftly so that we can better understand it and take action as required,” Jenrick added. 
  The number of patients requiring urgent hospital care as a result of coronavirus is continuing to decline, the national medical director of NHS England Stephen Powis said Saturday, adding that authorities are beginning to see some signs of stabilization in the rate of transmission across the country.
  "We are seeing a stabilization in the number of tests that are coming back positive,” he continued, highlighting that authorities have recorded an "encouraging" decline in the number of positive cases across London for a “succession” of days now. 
  “We are still in a situation where, in order to continue to see these declines, it is critical that we all comply with the social distancing measures that we have been instructed to take,” Powis cautioned. 
  New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said today that nursing homes are privately run facilities and while the state has basic regulations, they do not get into fine details of what these facilities do and what the policy of communication is.
  “I don’t know what else we could release beyond number of deaths per nursing home that doesn’t violate healthcare privacy,” Cuomo said.
  If there is a complaint that a nursing home is non-responsive “than we will talk to the nursing home and follow up,” he added.
  When asked if nursing homes were underreporting, Cuomo said “I don’t know if that’s what it is.”
  The governor has spoken to a number of nursing homes and “more than anything” they are overwhelmed and staff are getting sick. The residents are also under tremendous pressure because they haven’t had visitors, he said. 
  He doesn’t think anything is nefarious about reporting, but that it’s just the dynamic.
  By the numbers:  Yesterday the state released data showing there have been 1,109 confirmed Covid-19 deaths and presumed deaths from Covid-19 in 68 long-term care nursing home facilities in New York.
  However, the state did not provide a breakdown of how many were “presumed” deaths but indicated the data would be separated in future updates.
  The data is also incomplete because, for “privacy purposes,” facilities with less than five deaths have been excluded from reporting the results, according to the  state website .
 