WASHINGTON – As some states start opening back up  amid the coronavirus crisis  that has killed more than 68,000 Americans, Congress remains divided about when lawmakers should convene in full session again.
  The GOP-led Senate returns this week after Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said it was important for the upper chamber  to resume its work  on responding to the COVID-19 pandemic.
  "If it is essential for doctors, nurses, health care workers, truck drivers, grocery store workers and other brave Americans to keep carefully manning their duty stations, then it is essential for senators to carefully man ours and support them," he announced last week.
  The Democratic-led House was scheduled to be in this week as well, but Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., opted not to call lawmakers back to Washington after consulting with the House attending physician's office and the sergeant at arms about exposure to not only lawmakers but their staffs, police officers and other workers whose presence would be required.
  “We’re 430 members. The decision was made on the strength of our numbers and people coming together,” Pelosi  said Thursday  during a Capitol Hill news conference when asked about the Senate's return. "Everybody wants to open up the Congress. Republicans want to open up the Congress. We do, too. But we want to do it in a way" that minimizes risk.
  McConnell and Pelosi agreed on declining an offer from the Trump administration to provide 1,000 coronavirus tests.
  In a joint statement Saturday, the two leaders said they appreciated the "generous offer," but "Congress wants to keep directing resources to the front-line facilities where they can do the most good the most quickly."
  GOP House Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., told Politico Monday he disagreed with the decision to refuse tests, saying areas of the nation are likely to have flare-ups and the tests could prevent the virus from spreading in the Capitol.
  "Remember how many people from other parts of the country come to this location," he said.
  The nation's capital continues to see a steady rise in coronavirus cases.
  Will international travel resume this year?  Treasury Secretary Mnuchin says it's 'too hard to tell' 
  There have been 5,170 cases and 258 deaths,  according to the most recent update  from the District of Columbia Health Department. Over the past two weeks, 160 new cases were reported on a daily basis.
  The House is considering ways of voting remotely or by proxy in an effort to minimize exposure to members and staff.
  COVID Capitol: Rand Paul's coronavirus infection sends shock waves through Senate during major relief debate 
  Six lawmakers announced they tested positive for the virus although all returned to work:
  Dunn told USA TODAY Monday that all three tests he's taken since the original diagnosis are negative.
  "I feel 100%, and I'm Irish," he texted. "Doesn't get any better than that!" 
  Contributing: Christal Hayes 
 