Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, will get a security detail amid increased threats to his security, according to multiple reports.
  The 79-year-old doctor has been one of the most high-profile members of President Donald Trump's response to the coronavirus, earning praise and prompting the creation of fan-made paraphernalia from  donuts  to  bobbleheads .
  With that higher profile also came threats online, the Washington Post first  reported . In response to threats to Fauci, the Department of Health and Human Services and the U.S. Marshals Service have stationed agents at HHS to protect him, according to the Post.  
  The  New York Times  and the  Wall Street Journal  also reported the security detail, citing unnamed officials familiar with the matter. 
  The extent of the threats was not immediately clear, Fauci has drawn criticism from some of Trump's  staunchest   allies   online  after some say he has  contradicted  the president. 
  In a candid  interview  with Science Magazine in mid-March, Fauci said he and Trump "disagree on some things," but "he listens. He goes his own way. He has his own style." 
  Among other issues, Fauci has tamped down expectations about potential treatments for the coronavirus and voiced discomfort with the use of "Chinese virus" to describe it. 
  Trump thanked Fauci in a March 24 tweet, sharing a clip of an interview with him on Fox News and commenting, "thank you Tony!" 
  More: Steph Curry interviews Dr. Anthony Fauci on truth about coronavirus 
  More: Dr. Fauci doughnuts sell like hotcakes at NY doughnut shop 
  Fauci declined to comment about the security detail during a coronavirus task force briefing on Wednesday, telling reporters, "anything that has to do with security detail, I'd have to have you refer that question to the Inspector General of HHS rather than my answer that. 
  President Donald Trump then interjected, noting Fauci had been a basketball player, and saying, "He doesn’t need security. Everybody loves him. Besides, they’d be in big trouble if they ever attacked." 
  More: A nod to fame: Dr. Fauci is getting his own bobblehead in support of 100 million mask challeng e
 