Former Vice President Joe Biden got emotional while talking about loss during a virtual CNN town hall regarding the coronavirus outbreak.
  Biden was asked about COVID-19 patients who are dying alone due to strict protocols in place to prevent the spread of the virus, meaning their families can’t be there when they die. 
  The former vice president choked up talking about how he was present when his parents died and how he was able to be there in 2015 when his son Beau died of brain cancer, but not when his first wife died. 
  Just weeks before he was to be sworn in as a U.S. senator in 1972, his wife, Neila, and his daughter Naomi died in a car accident. Biden was in Washington at the time of the accident.
  “I was not able to be there,” Biden said after a noticeable pause. 
  Biden urged listeners to reach out to those who had been through a similar experience and to “seek help afterwards so they know, they can tell you that you can get through it.” 
  He then almost said his phone number on the air but stopped himself and encouraged those who have lost loved-ones from the coronavirus and are suffering from that experience to contact his campaign, saying he’d be “happy” to talk to them.
  “You know, I’ve lost a couple children, I’ve lost a wife, and it is incredibly difficult to go through, and it's harder to go through when you haven’t had an opportunity to be with the person while they’re dying,” Biden said. 
  – Savannah Behrmann 
  Former Vice President Joe Biden said during a CNN town hall on Friday that he has spoken with a number of governors as their states deal with the coronavirus pandemic.
  Biden named several governors, including Washington’s Jay Inslee and Michigan’s Gretchen Whitmer.
  President Donald Trump said Friday he has asked Vice President Mike Pence not to call governors he says have not been "appreciative" enough of his efforts on coronavirus. These included Whitmer, whom Trump referred to as “the woman in Michigan,” and Inslee, whom he called a “failed presidential candidate.”
  Biden says he was calling to “to see what’s happening on the ground for them,” naming other Democratic governors as well. The former vice president said he had also spoken to some Republican governors.
  He said on CNN that he would urge the governors to lock down their respective states in hopes of stalling the spread nationwide of the virus: “Why would we not err on the side of making sure we are not going to have a repeat?”
  Biden then spoke personally to Trump via the virtual town hall about the president’s feud with a few of the governors. He said: "This is not personal. It has nothing to do with you, Donald Trump, nothing to do with you. Do your job. Stop personalizing everything."
  – Savannah Behrmann 
  WASHINGTON – President Donald Trump said Friday he has asked Vice President Mike Pence not to call governors that he says have not been "appreciative" enough of his efforts on coronavirus – a group of critics that included a governor he referred to only by gender.
  "Don't call the woman in Michigan," Trump said while discussing Pence's work as head of the White House Coronavirus Task Force.
  That governor – Gretchen Whitmer – replied on Twitter that "right now, we all need to be focused on fighting the virus, not each other. I’m willing to work with anyone as long as we get the personal protective equipment we need for the people of Michigan."
  Besides, there was a suggestion that the White House will continue talking to the governor of Michigan anyway.
  Trump at one point said Pence will hear his instruction not to deal with critical governors, but "he'll call quietly anyway."
  -- David Jackson 
  WASHINGTON – President Donald Trump offered rare words of praise for the media on Friday for the way news organizations have reported on the coronavirus epidemic.
  “A lot of the media has been fair,” Trump said at a White House briefing. “I’m not used to fair treatment in the media. I don’t know how to handle it.” 
  Trump said that while he still has issues with some outlets, journalists in general view the coronavirus response as: "We're all in a problem together, and we’re going to win.”
  – Michael Collins 
  President Donald Trump said he will be sitting down with his health care advisers early next week to decide whether to extend the 15-day guidelines on social distancing and other safety measures to slow the spread of coronavirus.
  The guidelines expire Monday.
  - Michael Collins 
  President Donald Trump ramped up his threat Friday to use a Korean War era law to force American automakers to manufacture ventilators needed for critically ill coronavirus patients, but it was not clear how he intended to use the act. 
  Trump signed an order Friday directing the Secretary of Health and Human Services investigate applying the Defense Production Act against General Motors, which volunteered to make ventilators but which the president said stalled in that effort.
  In a press conference Friday, Trump said he had invoked the act and that the action would lead to the creation of 100,000 more ventilators. 
  "We will not hesitate to use the full authority of the federal government to combat this crisis," Trump said. "We have to get these people on board." 
  Congressional Democrats and some state officials have pressed the Trump administration to invoke the act, but Trump has been hesitant to do so. The act has several provisions: A president can incentivize the manufacture of products, for instance, or require companies to redirect products they are making to the government in times of national emergency.
  It was not immediately clear which of the many powers under the act Trump was referring to. Nor is it clear that the government can require a company to manufacture a product it generally does not make. Trump's order gave authority to the secretary of Health and Human Services to use all powers available under the law.
  Officials at the department did not respond to a request for further information. 
  The administration has claimed it has invoked the act at least two other times, but those have been less controversial provisions such as creating anti-hoarding requirements. 
  - John Fritze and Courtney Subramanian 
  President Donald Trump said UK Prime Minster Boris Johnson, who revealed he tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday, told the president he wants ventilators when the two spoke by phone earlier Friday. 
  Trump said in the next 100 days the U.S. will either make or get 100,000 additional ventilators.
  Trump said the U.S. plans to share any surplus of ventilators with other countries that have asked for them. Trump also said Italy, Spain and Germany want ventilators from the United States.
  "All over the world they want them, and we're in a position to make them. Other countries aren't," Trump said.
  - Courtney Subramanian 
  President Donald Trump said Boeing will produce and donate plastic face shields to help medical workers on the frontlines treating people with coronavirus.
  “They’re going to do thousands of these per week,” he said during a White House press briefing on Friday.
  Trump said he spoke to Boeing CEO Dave Calhoun, who told the president the company would also offer to let the federal government use three Dreamliner planes to distribute medical supplies across the country. 
  As it relates to medical equipment, Trump said, "We're going to be in very good shape" 
  - Maureen Groppe and Courtney Subramanian 
  President Donald Trump said White House trade adviser Peter Navarro was designated to be the national Defense Production Act policy coordinator under the executive order the president  signed earlier today implementing the Defense Production Act. 
  Trump made the announcement at a White House press briefing Friday.
  The wartime act allows the president to direct companies to speed the production of medical equipment including ventilators, masks and other supplies to help health care workers treat coronavirus patients.
  "We will work in partnership with the private sector,” Trump said, but in an emergency, “we will do what we have to do.”
  Navarro told reporters the administration "ran into roadblocks" with General Motors in negotiating a deal to manufacture ventilators.  "We can't afford to lose a single day," he said of Trump's decision to implement the DPA on Friday. 
  Trump said he thought he had a deal with GM to produce 40,000 ventilators, “then all of a sudden" it became 6,000. He said money also became an issue. “We didn’t want to play games with them,” he said.
  President Donald Trump, who has had disputes with a number of governors during the coronavirus crises, said during a White House briefing that the nation's governors "have been great" but said there are a "couple who aren't appreciative." 
  "I want them to be appreciative. I don't want them to say things that aren't true," Trump said of governors who have criticized his administration's response to the coronavirus pandemic. 
  Asked which governors aren’t doing enough, Trump slammed Washington Gov. Jay Inslee, calling him “a failed presidential candidate.” Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer “has no idea what’s going on, and all she does is say it’s the federal government’s fault,” he said.
  “The media has been pretty good, and the governors have been pretty good – except for a couple,” Trump said. “For them, it’s all political."
  Trump said he told Vice President Mike Pence not to bother talking to Inslee.
  Whitmer responded to Trump's comments on the governors, saying in a  tweet  she's "willing to work with anyone as long as we get the personal protective equipment we need."
  - Courtney Subramanian 
  President Donald Trump signed a $2 trillion bipartisan stimulus package Friday that is intended to address the threat of economic disaster posed by the coronavirus pandemic.
  Trump signed the measure – the largest stimulus in U.S. history – in the Oval Office hours after it was approved by the House of Representatives, an unusually rapid approval that underscored dire warnings of a recession as companies began to lay off workers and U.S. consumers hunkered down in their homes to avoid spreading the virus.
  "I want to thank Democrats and Republicans for coming together and putting America first," Trump said at the signing.
  He reflected on how fast coronavirus changed life in the U.S. and the world.
   "We got hit by the invisible enemy and we got hit hard," Trump said
  While the president’s signature ended the legislative effort on Capitol Hill, it marked a beginning to the government’s work managing the crisis. Now the Trump administration must rapidly pump hundreds of billions of dollars into the economy in the form of direct payments, loans and grants to hard-hit industries such as the airlines.
  The stimulus package will provide $1,200 checks to many Americans – and more for families – while making available hundreds of billions of dollars for companies to maintain payroll through the crisis. It significantly expands the nation’s unemployment safety net and it directs a huge infusion of cash to hospitals and other medical facilities on the front line of fighting the pandemic.
  Markets had rallied in recent days on the news that Republicans and Democrats had reached a deal on the stimulus, recovering some of the staggering losses of the past several weeks. The Dow Jones Industrial Average remained down Friday in midday trading.
  Trump said the economy would come roaring back.
  "I think we are going to have a tremendous rebound," he said.
  Despite last-minute drama and some partisan squabbling about the details of the bill, Congress and the White House moved at stunning speed to shepherd the measure through the House and Senate. The pace reflected the pressure lawmakers have felt to address the economic consequences of a pandemic that has largely brought the nation’s industries and small businesses to a standstill.
  As House leaders were rushing the Senate-approved legislation to the floor this week, the Labor Department reported Thursday that the number of Americans filing initial unemployment claims jumped nearly twelvefold to a record 3.28 million last week.
  Among the provisions in the package are $1,200 checks to qualifying individuals, $600 in additional weekly unemployment insurance payments, $367 billion in loans and grants to small businesses, over $130 billion for hospitals and community health centers and direct financial help to airlines and other hard-hit industries.
  – John Fritze, Christal Hayes and David Jackson 
  The Army Corps of Engineers has identified 114 sites across the United States in need of hospitals to handle the crush of COVID-19 patients and expects the number of facilities to grow by as much as 30 per day, said Army Lt. Gen. Todd Semonite, commander of the Army Corps of Engineers.
  In Chicago, the Corps is converting the sprawling McCormick Place Convention Center into a 3,000-bed hospital for COVID-19 patients at the cost of $75 million.
  Army field hospitals have already been deployed to New York and Seattle. In New York, the Army Corps of Engineers is retrofitting the Javits Convention Center to house 2,900 non-COVID-19 patients.
  Louisiana, Michigan and Florida are anticipated to be hotspots for outbreaks in coming weeks. Florida’s aging population, particularly in Miami, Orlando and Tampa, is of particular concern, Semonite said.
  - Tom Vanden Brook 
  WASHINGTON – Democratic leaders who helped negotiate a historic $2 trillion coronavirus package were not invited to the White House for President Donald Trump’s ceremonial signing of the bill, while top Republicans flocked to the White House for the event.
  Both House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer were not invited to the White House for the event, their offices said.
  The bill was the result of tedious bipartisan negotiations, and while members of both parties talked with the president and members of his administration throughout the process, Pelosi and Trump notably refrained from communicating at all.
  Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer was not present at the ceremony, either, though it’s unclear whether an invitation was extended to the New York Democrat. Schumer spoke with the president at least about the bill as it was being worked on in the Senate.
  Republicans, including Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy appeared at the White House alongside the president as he signed the landmark legislation, which will offer financial help for Americans, businesses, corporations and hospitals.
  The worsening virus had seemingly brought together Republicans and Democrats, forcing lawmakers to overcome deep-seated divisions in order to quickly get help to Americans and businesses reeling from the impact the virus has had on everyday life across the country.
  But that doesn’t appeared to have extended to Pelosi and Trump, who have continued to bicker throughout the negotiations. The pair have not spoken since October when she upbraided him in a White House meeting over his Syria policy. They last saw one another last month at the president’s State of the Union address, where Trump refused to shake Pelosi’s hand and she ripped up his speech in an extraordinary public fashion.
  In the past, the president has extended invites to some Democrats for such ceremonies but neglected to include them for others. No Democrats were at the White House when Trump signed off on his new trade deal for North America, something signed shortly after the House voted to impeach him from office.
  – Christal Hayes and John Fritze 
  Rep. Ayanna Pressley, D-Mass., said Friday that she has tested negative for the coronavirus.
  “I am relieved to report that I have tested negative for COVID-19. I am, however still recovering from the flu, but feeling much better and continuing to work remotely with my team on COVID-19 response,” Pressley said.
  She had announced on Wednesday that she would be self-quarantining after experiencing flu-like symptoms, and was tested for COVID-19 out of an abundance of caution. “As an asthmatic and as someone who had been in contact with a colleague who tested positive for COVID-19, it was determined that I fell into a high risk category,” she said. 
  Pressley continued that she was “touched by the outpouring of support and concern for me and my family. My heart goes out to, and I continue to send prayers up for those battling this virus, and the surviving family members of those who have tragically already passed.” 
  - Savannah Behrmann 
  President Donald Trump, who has accused critics of politicizing the coronavirus epidemic,  is now sponsoring a campaign ad  promoting his handling of the response.
  "In times of struggle, we see the true greatness of the American character. Americans," Trump says in the online ad. "From all walks of life are rallying together to defeat the unseen enemy!"
  Many Democrats, including likely presidential nominee Joe Biden, have said Trump has been too slow in responding to the outbreak, and that states and cities remain without equipment to treat patients.
  – David Jackson 
  WASHINGTON – The House voted to pass a $2 trillion coronavirus relief package – the largest emergency aid bill in history – that will offer $1,200 checks to Americans, extensive unemployment benefits for those out of work and financial relief to businesses and the health care industry hard-hit by the worsening crisis.
  The House’s vote allows the bill to head to President Donald Trump’s desk for final approval. Trump has signaled he will sign the bill.
  The vote comes one day after the U.S. reached two grim milestones, becoming the country with the most coronavirus cases in the world and reporting a record 3.28 million workers who applied for unemployment benefits in one week – the highest number in history since the Department of Labor started tracking data in 1967. The massive package aims to offer a financial lifeline to Americans and businesses that are hurting while also offering reassurance to the markets, which have been battered by fears that shutdowns related to the pandemic could throw the economy into a deep recession.
  So far, COVID-19 has killed nearly 1,300 people in the U.S. and infected about 86,000. Efforts to mitigate its spread has left businesses closed and many Americans out of work.
  Among the provisions in the measure are $1,200 checks to individuals, strengthened unemployment benefits that will offer workers an additional $600 weekly for four months, $367 billion in loans and grants to small businesses, over $130 billion for hospitals and community health centers and financial help to airlines and other industries affected by the virus.
  The measure was passed despite some last-minute drama that sent House lawmakers into a frantic rush to get back to D.C. over worries Rep. Thomas Massie, R-Ky., would call for a recorded vote on the measure. Massie did request a recorded vote, which requires a majority of lawmakers be present at the Capitol, but it did not receive a second in order to enforce it. 
  – Christal Hayes 
  Shortly after the House of Representatives passed a $2 trillion coronavirus stimulus package, Rep. Joe Cunningham, D-S.C., announced a positive test for the coronavirus. 
  "While I otherwise feel fine, since March 17th I have been unable to smell or taste, which I learned this week is a potential symptom of COVID-19," he said. Cunningham said he was tested on Thursday after a remote consultation with a physician and received a positive result today. 
  "While my symptoms have begun to improve, I will remain at home until I know it is safe to leave self-quarantine," Cunningham said in a statement, adding that he would continue to work remotely. 
  Cunningham said he had been in self-quarantine since March 19 after coming into contact with another member of Congress who tested positive. 
  The South Carolina Democrat is the third member of the House of Representatives to test positive for the coronavirus along with Rep. Ben McAdams, D-Utah, and Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart, R-Fla. Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., also tested positive.
  - Nicholas Wu  
  President Donald Trump urged automakers General Motors and Ford to begin manufacturing ventilators, critical medical equipment needed to treat COVID-19 patients, and mentioned invoking the Defense Production Act to compel those companies to begin mass production.
  "General Motors MUST immediately open their stupidly abandoned Lordstown plant in Ohio, or some other plant, and START MAKING VENTILATORS NOW!!!!!!" he tweeted. "FORD, GET GOING ON VENTILATORS, FAST!!!!!!"
  The president tweeted "Invoke 'P'" which he clarified in a later tweet meant the Defense Production Act, a wartime authority that allows him to direct companies to speed the production of medical equipment including ventilators, masks and other supplies to help health care workers treat coronavirus patients.
  While he mentioned his authority to invoke the DPA, Trump did not make clear whether he was going to use the act to compel the companies to make ventilators or whether he was just raising the threat to do so.
  Trump appeared to be responding to a  New York Times  report that found the White House stopped short of approving a $1 billion dollar deal with General Motors and Ventec Life Systems to produce up to 80,000 of the much-needed ventilators after government officials said they needed more time to weigh the price tag, according to the newspaper.
  The president has faced mounting criticism from state and local officials for not formally enforcing the DPA to compel companies to expedite the production of medical supplies amid a widespread shortage of equipment across the country. 
  "As usual with 'this' General Motors, things just never seem to work out. They said they were going to give us 40,000 much needed Ventilators, 'very quickly.' Now they are saying it will only be 6000, in late April, and they want top dollar," Trump tweeted.
  - Courtney Subramanian 
  The House is expected to have enough members present to vote on a $2 trillion coronavirus relief package Friday, according to a leadership aide.
  That's important because frustrated House members rushed back to D.C. Friday so the House would have the majority present to hold a recorded vote that Rep. Thomas Massie plans to request. 
  Massie, R-Ky., angered both parties, as well as President Donald Trump, by asking for the recorded vote, which requires at least a majority be present in the House to record their votes. 
  The House had planned to approve the measure by voice vote, meaning it would pass with present members calling out either "aye" or "nay,” a method that did not require a majority. Leaders wanted lawmakers to stay home due to concerns that having them travel could further spread the virus within Congress. Already, two House lawmakers have tested positive for the virus and more than two dozen have gone into quarantine over the last several weeks.
  House Democrats and Republicans worked together throughout Friday to tally the votes to get to the magic number – 216 – to hold a recorded vote. 
  Massie explained his rationale in a series of  tweets .
  "The Constitution requires that a quorum of members be present to conduct business in the House. Right now, millions of essential, working-class Americans are still required to go to work during this pandemic such as manufacturing line workers, healthcare professionals, pilots, grocery clerks, cooks/chefs, delivery drivers, auto mechanics, and janitors (to name just a few). Is it too much to ask that the House do its job, just like the Senate did?”  
  - Christal Hayes 
  'Disaster for America': Trump lashes out at Massie
  President Donald Trump lashed out at Rep. Thomas Massie as a "grandstander" and "disaster for America" who should be thrown out of the GOP for the Kentucky Republican's opposition to a $2 trillion coronavirus relief package expected to pass in the House Friday.
  "Looks like a third rate Grandstander named @RepThomasMassie, a Congressman from, unfortunately a truly GREAT state, Kentucky, wants to vote against the new Save Our Workers Bill in Congress," Trump  tweeted  Friday morning. 
  "He just wants the publicity. He can't stop it, only delay, which is both dangerous...& costly," Trump added. 
  The president said it has been "HELL" working with Democrats to negotiate the bill, conceding that he "had to give up some stupid things in order to get the 'big picture done.'" 
  After calling on the GOP to retake the House in November, Trump added, "but throw Massie out of the Republican Party!"
  In a  followup tweet,  Trump said Massie was "empowering the Radical Left Democrats" and declared: "He is a disaster for America, and for the Great State of Kentucky!" 
  Massie has also threatened to request lawmakers vote in person on the bill, forcing House lawmakers to rush back to Washington Friday in order to have enough lawmakers present to vote on the measure. 
  The House had planned to approve the package while keeping its hundreds of members home over concerns about further spreading the virus. Two House lawmakers have tested positive for COVID-19.
  Members were planning to use a voice vote in which those present in the House would call out either "aye" or 'nay." Such a method doesn't require a majority to be present.  But if even just one member requests a recorded vote, which Massie has threatened to do, it would require more than half of House members to be present on the floor to cast votes in person on the measure. 
  Several lawmakers lambasted Massie for forcing them back to Washington. But at least one, Texas Republican Rep. Chip Roy, defended Massie and told Trump to "back off."
  "@RepThomasMassie is one of the most principled men in Congress & loves his country. He is defending the Constitution today by requiring a quorum. There’s nothing 3rd rate about that,@realDonaldTrump," Roy  tweeted . "I may miss vote if he forces roll call (flights) but it will pass. Back off."
  - Courtney Subramanian 
  NYC lawmakers travel to DC to vote despite White House guidance 
  Several members of Congress from New York City are traveling to Washington, D.C., Friday to vote on the coronavirus stimulus package despite White House guidance for New Yorkers to self-quarantine
  Earlier this week at a coronavirus task force press briefing, Dr. Deborah Birx advised people from New York to self-quarantine for 14 days after leaving the city to avoid spreading the virus. 
  In spite of this guidance, several members representing parts of New York City were spotted on the House floor or traveled to Washington to vote. 
  "I flew in this AM and most N.Y. members are here so no one really talking about it," Rep. Grace Meng, D-N.Y., told USA TODAY in a text. Meng posted a photo from a mostly empty flight earlier in the morning as she flew in from her Queens-area district.
  Stimulus check calculator: Calculate how much money you could get 
  Rep. Nydia Velazquez, D-N.Y., who represents parts of Brooklyn, Queens, and Manhattan, gave a short speech on the House floor calling for the stimulus bill's package. 
  Rep. Hakeem Jeffries, D-N.Y., whose district includes Brooklyn and Queens, posted a picture from his House office as he waited to vote.
  House leaders asked lawmakers to quickly return to Washington over fears an in-person vote would be needed to move the bill to President Donald Trump for final approval.
  - Nicholas Wu 
  The House of Representatives began what could be up to three hours of debate on a $2 trillion coronavirus stimulus bill Friday morning. 
  House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer said they would be holding an "unusual but critical session" as the House members took their own steps to avoid the virus.
  Members of the House were advised to keep at least six feet of distance from each other, and to sanitize their hands as they walked on and off of the House floor. Hand sanitizer dispensers were placed at the entrances of the House floor for members' use. 
  "No one will agree with every part of this rescue bill, but we face a challenge rarely seen in America's history. We must act now or the toll on lives and livelihoods will be far greater," said Rep. Kevin Brady, R-Texas. 
  - Nicholas Wu  
  Frustrated and angry House lawmakers are rushing back to Washington, taking red-eye flights and driving for hours after one member suggested he would require an in-person vote on a historic $2 trillion bill to help Americans and businesses reeling from the impacts of coronavirus.
  The House plans to vote on the package by voice vote, meaning it would pass with members calling out either "aye" or "nay,” but the procedure allows for any one lawmaker to ask for a recorded vote. If any lawmaker asks for one, it would require more than half of House members to be present on the House floor to cast votes in person on the legislation.
  The House hoped to approve the package while keeping its hundreds of members home due to concerns about further spreading the virus. Already, two House lawmakers have tested positive for COVID-19.
  Trump on N.Y. ventilator request: 'I don’t believe you need 40,000 or 30,000 ventilators." 
  But several lawmakers have voiced some opposition to the bill and allowing it to sail through without a full vote. One in particular, Rep. Thomas Massie, R-Ky., has specifically threatened to ask for a recorded vote.
  The threat caused leadership to ask that members quickly return to Washington, leading to a frantic rush to find flights or drive up to D.C. Several lawmakers took to Twitter and posted selfies from red-eye flights and their cars with some publicly airing their frustration and anger toward Massie.
  “We’re headed back to D.C. this morning to vote on the third coronavirus relief package. We know this has to get done as quickly as possible,” Rep. Mary Gay Scanlon, D-Penn., said in a Twitter video. “I’m really disappointed that there’s some members threatening to tank the bill on the floor, so we all got a call last night that we should head back as quickly as possible.”
  One of Massie’s fellow Republicans was more blunt. Rep. Pete King, R-N.Y., called it “disgraceful” and “irresponsible.”
  “Heading to Washington to vote on pandemic legislation. Because of one Member of Congress refusing to allow emergency action entire Congress must be called back to vote in House,” he wrote on Twitter. “Risk of infection and risk of legislation being delayed.”
  - Christal Hayes 
  Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer responded to President Donald Trump after the president seemed to forget the Democrat's name while discussing the coronavirus response.
  Trump couldn't recall Whitmer's name during an interview with Sean Hannity of Fox News on Thursday: "We've had a big problem with the young, a woman governor from, you know who I'm talking about, from Michigan."
  Trump, who has also clashed with the governors of New York, Illinois, and Washington, among others, said Michigan's state executive is "not stepping up. I don't know if she knows what's going on. But all she does is sit there and blame the federal government."
  Whitmer responded later Thursday.
  "Hi, my name is Gretchen Whitmer, and that governor is me," Whitmer tweeted at the president. "I've asked repeatedly and respectfully for help. We need it. No more political attacks, just PPEs, ventilators, N95 masks, test kits."
  She added: "You said you stand with Michigan — prove it."
  Trump also said he loves the people of Michigan and "Michigan is a very important state."
  In her response, to the president, Whitmer did strike a positive note as it relates to Vice President Mike Pence.
  "PS: I’m happy to work with the VP!" Whitmer tweeted. "We get along well."
  - David Jackson 
  China President Xi Jinping, angry that President Donald Trump has used the phrase "China virus" to describe the coronavirus pandemic, urged Trump to do more to improve relations between the world's biggest trading partners, Chinese state media reported Friday.
  In an overnight phone call, Xi told Trump he hoped the United States "will take substantive actions to improve" relations between the two countries, reported China state broadcaster CCTV.
  Xi also said that China wants to "continue sharing all information and experience with the U.S." to fight the global spread of coronavirus, CCTV.
  Trump, who has said he uses the term "China virus" because that is where the coronavirus started, put a positive spin on the phone call with Xi, describing it as "a very good conversation."
  "Discussed in great detail the CoronaVirus that is ravaging large parts of our Planet," Trump tweeted. "China has been through much & has developed a strong understanding of the Virus. We are working closely together. Much respect!"
  - David Jackson 
  The House of Representatives is set to pass a massive $2 trillion stimulus package Friday to combat the coronavirus.
  The measure will send direct payments to individuals and families, and aid businesses and industries. 
  As more lawmakers have self-quarantined and as three lawmakers have tested positive for the coronavirus, House Democratic and Republican leaders have said they want this legislation to pass by a voice vote, or an unrecorded vote normally reserved for uncontroversial matters like minting  commemorative coins  or making  technical corrections  to laws.  
  "Our Members want to come back in order to have the debate, and we expect to have a voice vote on it," House Speaker Nancy Pelosi told reporters on Thursday. "But if we don't, we'll be prepared for whatever it is." 
  House members have been advised to keep 6 feet between themselves and staff in their offies and the Capitol, and access to the floor of the House is being limited. 
  Rep. Thomas Massie, R-Ky., has  threatened  to oppose a voice vote, which would delay proceedings by forcing lawmakers to hold a recorded vote. 
  The bill passed the Senate by a 96-0 vote on Wednesday night following days of negotiations between Democrats and Republicans over final provisions. Democrats had asked for more stringent oversight over the funds disbursed to industries affected by the outbreak.
  The House is set to reconvene at 9:00 a.m. EDT. 
  - Nicholas Wu 
  While pledging cooperation with governors to fight the coronavirus, President Donald Trump is questioning some of their requests for tens of thousands of ventilators needed to treat an expected flood of patients in the coming weeks.
  "I don’t believe you need 40,000 or 30,000 ventilators," Trump told Fox News host Sean Hannity on Thursday. "You know, you go into major hospitals, sometimes, they’ll have two ventilators. And now all of a sudden they're saying, 'can we order 30,000 ventilators?'"
  New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said he needs 30,000 ventilators "at a minimum" to meet the peak of the outbreak in his state in a couple of weeks. Cuomo also said the federal government has been slow to help provide help.
  “The president said it’s a war – it is a war," Cuomo said. "Well, then, act like it’s a war!”
  Citing Cuomo's request, Trump told Hannity: "Thirty thousand? All right. Think of this. You know, you go to hospitals, they'll have one in a hospital. And now, all of a sudden everybody's asking for these vast numbers."
  Trump had a teleconference with governors on Thursday, and called it "a terrific meeting."
  -- David Jackson 
  A new poll shows increased support for President Donald Trump amid the response to the spread of coronavirus, including his highest-ever presidential approval rating – 48% to 46% disapproval, according to  a new Washington Post-ABC News poll .
  Trump, who has commandeered nationally televised briefings on the coronavirus response for two weeks, has seen his approval rating rise five points in the past month, the poll said.
  "That is the highest approval rating of his presidency in Post-ABC surveys and the first time his overall rating is net positive," the Washington Post reported.
  The Post also said that "most Americans say he was too slow to take action in the early days of the virus’s spread" and that the rise in Trump's approval rating "is far smaller than some other presidents have experienced in times of national crisis."
  As usual, views of Trump fall sharply along party lines – Republicans strongly support him, Democrats strongly oppose him.
  His improved approval rating is due to a slight rise in Democratic support since the same poll in February, the Post said: "Then, just 4 percent of Democrats approved of his overall performance, while the new poll shows 17 percent offering a positive rating."
  - David Jackson 
 