Major tourist hot spots across the country, including the Statue of Liberty, the Pearl Harbor Memorial and Broadway, are taking precautionary measures by closing to help prevent the spread of coronavirus.
  Even major Las Vegas shows are suspending performances, too. 
  Caesars Entertainment announced March 15 that "all ticketed live entertainment" events held in its venues would suspend performances through March 31. Major shows at Caesars properties in Las Vegas include Rod Stewart and Reba McEntire, Kix Brooks and Ronnie Dunn's residency at Caesars Palace, plus Kelly Clarkson and Shania Twain residencies at Planet Hollywood.
  The website says refunds and exchanges are available at the point of purchase. 
  Cirque du Soleil  has shut down its shows throughout the world because of the outbreak.
  Las Vegas show closures include "Ö" at the Bellagio, "KA" at MGM Grand, "The Beatles LOVE" at the Mirage, "Mystere" at Treasure Island, "Zumanity" at New York-New York, "Michael Jackson ONE" at Mandalay Bay and Blue Man Group at Luxor.
  Cirque shows in Austin, Chicago, Houston, New Orleans, Salt Lake City, Boston, Denver and Costa Mesa, Calif., as well as Montreal, Tel Aviv, Munich, Spain (Meloneras) and Australia (Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth) also are cancelled.
  Tickets for canceled performances will automatically be refunded within 30 days.
  And Penn & Teller have called off their long-running comedy/magic show at the Rio All-Suite Hotel & Casino.
  Penn Jillette tweeted: "Out of concern and love for our audiences, & well, concern and love for everyone – we will be canceling our shows starting tonight for the next few weeks."
  The National Park Service said the  Pearl Harbor National Memorial  has closed temporarily. The site includes the USS Arizona Memorial, which honors the 1,177 Marines and sailors killed when their battleship sank during the 1941 Japanese bombing of Pearl Harbor. The memorial normally receives about 1.8 million visitors each year.
  The Statue of Liberty National Monument and Ellis Island  are both closed as a result of the coronavirus outbreak. Customers can go  here  for refund information, or call (877) 523-9849.
  Cloud Gate Plaza, a section of Millennium Park featuring Chicago's famous Cloud Gate sculpture nicknamed "The Bean," has closed. The rest of the park remains open, though events and programs in the park are canceled through April 12. 
  Navy Pier shut its doors to the public through April 2. 
  "We recognize that these are challenging and unprecedented times," reads a statement on the Navy Pier's website. "Navy Pier thanks its staff, partners and guests for their ongoing cooperation and adaptability, and extends its deepest gratitude to the heroic first responders, doctors, nurses, researchers, health experts and public servants – in Chicago and around the world – who are continuing to serve and working tirelessly to restore the health and safety of our local and global community."
  Broadway closes until at least April 
  New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo  announced a ban on gatherings of more than 500 people in a news conference  March 12,  shuttering Broadway.  Cuomo said the shutdown, which  The Broadway League  said will last until at least until April 12, could remain in place for far longer than one month.
  Many shows were in or set to begin previews in the coming weeks. Currently, the official cutoff date for shows to open to be eligible for the 2019-2020 Tony Awards season is April 23. The nominees are set to be announced April 28, with the awards ceremony set for June 7.
  Broadway national tours across the country also have canceled performances.
  Though shows may be shuttered, some Broadway voices are finding ways to be heard.
  Stage stars like Audra McDonald, Idina Menzel, Kristin Chenoweth, Norbert Leo Butz, Kelli O'Hara, Wayne Brady, Betty Buckley and Laura Benanti sing and perform live from their homes in two daily online charity shows starting March 16.  
  The shows are the brainchild of Seth Rudetsky and James Wesley, the host and producer of Sirius XM's "On Broadway" and will follow the traditional theater times of 2 and 8 p.m. ET. The shows will encourage viewers to donate to The Actors Fund’s services for those dealing with the coronavirus outbreak and its financial costs.
  The shows can be seen at The Actors Fund YouTube channel, as well as Playbill.com and BroadwayWorld.com.
  Online concerts have taken on a new appeal as the virus keeps people inside. Latin singers Juanes and Alejandro Sanz recently performed on YouTube Live; a pair of Metropolitan Opera stars belted out tunes on Facebook and Instagram; the Russian-German pianist Igor Levit took to Twitter  to stream his music; and the Vancouver Symphony Orchestra live-streamed a Beethoven symphony.
  The White House and the U.S. Capitol are closed to tours  until April 1, the House and Senate Sergeant at Arms announced. The  Capitol Visitor Center  is closed to tours “out of concern for the health and safety of congressional employees and the public” amid broader fears about the spread of the coronavirus. During this time, only staff, credentialed press and those with official business will be allowed entry.
  The New York Public Library is closed through the end of the month due to health concerns.
  "As a precaution to help limit the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19) and ensure the health and safety of our patrons and staff, all @nypl locations will be closed starting March 14 through at least March 31,"  a statement shared to Twitter read .
  The Madison Square Garden Company announced on its website that it "supports Governor Cuomo’s decision regarding New York venues."
  "We encourage you to check back to this site, which will be your source for further details about our future events, which we will update regularly as more information becomes available," the statement added.
  The Metropolitan Museum of Art  also closed its doors at its three locations: the Met Fifth Avenue, The Met Breuer and The Met Cloisters .
  The Met said in a statement it "will undertake a thorough cleaning and plans to announce next steps early next week."
  As for the annual Met Gala held at the museum, Anna Wintour wrote in an  article posted to Vogue  on March 16 that this year's event has been pushed back.
  "One day that will not arrive on schedule will be the opening of the Costume Institute’s exhibition, About Time. Due to the unavoidable and responsible decision by the Metropolitan Museum to close its doors, About Time, and the opening night gala, will not take place on the date scheduled," Wintour writes. "In the meantime, we will give you a preview of this extraordinary exhibition in our forthcoming May issue."
  Carnegie Hall also said  all upcoming events and programming  through March 31 are canceled.
  Those who purchased tickets by credit card from Carnegie Hall for a performance that has been canceled will receive automatic refunds, and those who purchased with cash can also receive a refund through June 30.
  Carnegie Hall had already postponed a  March 27 performance by Gamin and the Nangye Gugak Orchestra  "due to current challenges with traveling from South Korea related to the coronavirus."
  The Frick Collection  also closed its galleries and libraries and canceled all planned events. Visitors requesting a refund for these events are encouraged to contact the institution directly.
  'We’ll get you out': Travelers race to get home, prices soar after Europe coronavirus travel ban 
  The Smithsonian said in a release that all its museums and the National Zoo will close temporarily  "as a public health precaution due to COVID-19." No date has been set for reopening and updates will be provided on a week-to-week basis, the  Smithsonian a nnounced .
  The  John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts  in Washington has extended the cancellation of all public performances and events through May 10. Last week, the center announced it was canceling performances through March 31. 
  The entire campus on the Potomac River including the restaurant, café and other food service will be closed to visitors. Officials are considering options for rescheduling artists and productions for a future date where possible.Tickets for events can be exchanged or fully refunded, according to a release from the Kennedy Center.
  Boston's John F. Kennedy Library  announced March 12 in a release that it was closing immediately "after learning that two employees attended a conference at the Row Hotel in Somerville, MA last week where other attendees were confirmed to have come down with the coronavirus." The library said both employees are in self-quarantine, and encouraged people who visited the library between March 5 and March 11 to "monitor your health for symptoms of coronavirus, including fever, cough, and shortness of breath."
  The  San Diego Zoo  and the adjoining Safari Park are closed. "We are putting the health and well-being of our greater community first," CEO Paul A. Baribault said.
  Baribult emphasized that the animals will continue to receive dedicated care. "Our teams of wildlife care specialists, and others maintaining other critical care systems, will remain active on grounds while we are temporarily closed to the public," he said.
  Baribault marked April 1 for the planned re-opening.
  The Philadelphia Orchestra performed March 12's concert to an empty Verizon Hall, but broadcast it live online.
  The orchestra said is was offering the concert as a way to share music during a wave of event cancellations in the Philadelphia region as the number of confirmed coronavirus cases grows.
  Otherwise, the orchestra has canceled all rehearsals, performances and events through March 23, including performances at the Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts and the Academy of Music.
  Though travel is diminishing as coronavirus concerns increase, some tours are still available for those interested.
  Free Tours by Foot , a walking tour company which operates in Washington, D.C., Seattle, Chicago, New York City and a dozen other North American cities, said it is still hosting tours on a smaller scale.
  "The vast majority of our tours take place outside in small groups already. Our focus is on continuing to offer these and to arrange private tours to individual families and small groups travelling together who do not need to travel far to reach us. Like many in the service industry, we have worked with guides to take measures to help ensure the health of our guides and guests – we have a vast knowledge of where the bathrooms are to wash hands and we encourage online payment rather than cash."
  In case you're in Paris, be warned:  The Louvre  is now closed until further notice. Elsewhere in the French capital, the  Eiffel Tower  is closed to the public.
  In Spain, the  Guggenheim Bilbao   is closed until further notice.
  Q&A: What you need to know about Trump's travel ban from Europe due to coronavirus 
  Contributing: Nicholas Wu, Christal Hayes, Sara Moniuszko, Andrea Mandell; Ed Komenda, Reno Gazette Journal; Ilana Keller, Asbury Park Press; Associated Press 
 