–
  WASHINGTON – Vice President Mike Pence said in a Wednesday television interview that Italy "may be the most comparable area to the United States" in terms of coronavirus mortality rates and cases. 
  Pence had been asked on CNN when the Trump administration arrived at its projection discussed in Tuesday's coronavirus task force briefing that  100,000 to 240,000  Americans could die from the disease. 
  He replied that the administration had modeled "what's happened around the world. We think Italy may be the most comparable area to the United States at this point, for a variety of reasons."
  The vice president called the potential range of deaths "heartbreaking." 
  Italy currently has the largest number of coronavirus deaths, about 12,428, according to the Johns Hopkins University  tracker  of coronavirus cases, and the United States has at least 4,400 deaths. The United States has more than 200,000 confirmed cases, and Italy has more than 110,000. 
  Italy currently has a coronavirus death rate of about 208 per million people, whereas the United States has a death rate of about 13.5 per million people. 
  Pence also said the CDC would be reviewing its guidance on the "issue of masks as a protective measure" and "on CDC’s recommendation we’ll bring those recommendations to the president at the appropriate time."
  Current CDC guidance is that masks are not necessary unless a person is infected with the coronavirus or is in contact with coronavirus patients. 
  More: Trump warns of 'very painful' time as aides predict US coronavirus death toll could reach 240,000 
  More: Surgeon general says CDC was asked to review guidance on wearing masks 
  Asked about Trump's "belittling" of the pandemic, Pence replied, "I don't believe the president has ever belittled the threat of the coronavirus ... I think he has expressed confidence that America will meet this moment." 
  Pressed further, and asked about Trump's comparison of coronavirus deaths to those from car accidents or the flu, Pence said, "Well, look, the president – the president is an optimistic person," noting that the administration had been "hoping for the best, but planning for the worst." 
 