America’s stumbling  rollout of testing  for the  virus that causes COVID-19  significantly slowed the nation’s response.
  In the past week,  testing has accelerated , and a mix of public and private labs execute more than 100,000 tests per day. Still, experts said, the  nation’s patchwork testing system  remains uneven, many are denied tests or must wait several days for results as labs struggle to process a growing backlog of tests.
  “It’s not as if it’s a train running along, as you might’ve heard,” said William Schaffner, a Vanderbilt University School of Medicine professor of preventive medicine and an infectious-disease doctor. “Because testing is restricted still in many parts of the country.”
  The nation’s testing problems have been well-chronicled.  Strict U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines initially limited who should be tested for SARS-CoV-2, the coronavirus that causes COVID-19.
  Get daily coronavirus updates in your inbox:   Sign up for our newsletter now. 
  Flawed test kits were shipped in February  to state and county public health labs nationwide .  The nation’s vast network of hospital and private commercial labs did not get the Food and Drug Administration’s regulatory green light until the end of February.
  The trickle of tests could not match the speed of the virus, which gained a foothold in metro Seattle in January and later New York City.  Cases proliferate in Chicago, Miami, New Orleans  and several other cities and towns as public and private labs work round-the-clock to catch up and face limits on testing supplies.
  No nation has more cases of COVID-19 than the U.S.  American deaths from COVID-19 passed China, where the virus first appeared. 
  Public health officials said the slow pace of early testing played a pivotal role in the fast spread of the virus, which has no proven drug or vaccine to slow it down.
  Schaffner said widespread testing will be critically important to rein in the virus in the U.S.
  Doctors need to know who has COVID-19 to care for sick patients, as well as protect health care workers and noninfected patients from the spreading virus. Public health workers need testing data to find out where the virus is spreading, information that can inform policies such as when to enforce or  ease social distancing – the nation's foremost strategy to slow the virus. 
  “We have hot spots. We have warm spots. We have many other places that are warming up such as Nashville,” Schaffner said.  “It would be well to be able to define those areas with greater precision than we currently can. The best way to do that is through widespread testing.”
  There are roadblocks to a rapid buildup in testing. The network of state and county public health laboratories is at maximum capacity, and states such as Arizona asked doctors to avoid most testing. New York City's Department of Health  limits testing to hospital patients  even as hospitals struggle to quickly turn around tests.
  Not only do public health labs there have limited capacity, officials worry about a worsening shortage of masks, gowns and other gear health care workers need to protect themselves.
  Former FDA chief : 'Should have been a sense of urgency' 
  Another emerging issue: a growing backlog of tests. Of the more than 83,800 tests in California, results were available for 27,251 tests as of Saturday,  according to the California Department of Public Health.  That means on average, two of every three people tested for COVID-19 in California don't know their results.
  Six large commercial lab companies – ARUP, BioReference Laboratories, LabCorp, Mayo Clinic, Quest Diagnostics and Sonic Healthcare – are completing the bulk of the nation's testing. As of Tuesday, those labs completed 807,000 COVID-19 tests, according to the American Clinical Laboratory Association. 
  Those labs want to expand testing, but officials warned of potential roadblocks.
  ACLA President Julie Khani said doctors and hospitals should order tests for those who need them most, per CDC guidelines. She said her association's labs need "consistent access" to swabs, personal protective equipment, test kits and chemical components called reagents to run the tests.
  "Any constriction or disruption in the supply chain could suddenly create a bottleneck," Khani said.
  National supplies: US never spent enough on emergency stockpile 
  Baltimore County resident Stuart Diamant-Cohen has been saddled with shortness of breath and a cough since early February. Over the course of a dozen trips to clinics, doctors offices and two hospitals, his symptoms have worsened.
  After one Baltimore hospital refused to test him, he called a  COVID-19 hotline and was tested for the virus at a drive-thru testing clinic in the parking lot of another Baltimore hospital March 20. The testing specimen, taken with a nasal swab, was sent to a LabCorp testing facility. He learned Wednesday he does not have the virus – 12 days after he was tested. However, the same day, another hospital doctor ordered a second test over concerns the first test might have falsely concluded he does not have the virus.
  Diamant-Cohen and his wife, Betsy, isolated themselves for weeks, unsure whether he had coronavirus. 
  "This is much more important than one mere individual," said Diamant-Cohen, an executive director of a nonprofit group. "This is a debacle of the health care system on a local and national level."
  In Pittsburgh, infectious-disease doctor Amesh Adalja spends hours fielding requests from doctors who want to know whether they should test patients because there aren’t enough tests.
  “I am still approving tests,” said Adalja, a senior scholar at Johns Hopkins University’s Center for Health Security.  “I am still deciding yes or no. It should just be we are ordering tests when required and I don’t have to ration the tests.”
  One solution would be to include a coronavirus test in a screening panel for flu and other respiratory viruses. Public health labs do not have the novel coronavirus test built into the screening panel routinely given to patients with seasonal illness.
  Former CDC Director Tom Frieden said the federal government did not act quickly enough  to allow hospital, academic and private labs to develop their own tests, and the private sector did not get clear guidance in time to prepare for the pandemic.
  Although the CDC has been criticized for the slow testing,  Frieden said the organization's role is limited to public health surveillance.  It was never meant to provide clinical testing nationwide.
  “CDC tests were never supposed to meet the entire need for the U.S.,” Frieden said. “They were supposed to meet the need for public health.”
  Frieden, who spearheaded the nation's response to the Ebola outbreak in 2014, said the federal government emphasizes commercial labs that process large numbers of tests. Samples must be collected and shipped to these labs, and results can take days to report.
  He said such delayed testing is "not very useful" for emergency room doctors who need quick results. 
  He said more practical tests are quick-turn diagnostics that can be completed in minutes. The FDA granted emergency use authorization to Abbott Laboratories last week for its molecular point-of-care test.
  The testing machine is a 6.6-pound box about the size of a toaster that can detect the virus in five minutes or negative results in 13 minutes, according to Abbott. 
  The company said it will perform 50,000 tests per day through its platform that will be used at doctors' offices and urgent care clinics. 
  On March 21, Sunnyvale, California-based Cepheid received FDA emergency authorization for its test that detects the virus within 45 minutes. The company said it has 5,000 automated machines that can test samples in U.S. hospitals and other health facilities.
  Frieden said such quick-turn tests will be important for doctors who must have quick decisions. 
  "You can run a test in the emergency room," Frieden said. "That's really helpful. That's a high turnaround test."
 