Moments after President Donald Trump spoke optimistically of the nation's battle against the coronavirus on Sunday while repeatedly expressing delight over  the Federal Reserve lowering interest rates to near zero , members of his administration's task force struck a more somber tone.
  With the number of coronavirus cases in the country rising past the 3,200 mark and the fatality count reaching 63, Trump opened a Sunday evening news conference addressing the Fed’s economy-boosting moves, which he said also included buying $500 billion in treasury bills and $200 billion in mortgage-backed securities.
  “It makes me very happy,’’ he said.
  Trump also noted he had spoken with the CEOs of several grocery-store chains and major retailers like Costco and Walmart, and reassured the public that stores would remain open and that there was no need to hoard supplies.
  Numerous supermarkets have reported a pandemic-driven rush  on cleaning products, hand sanitizer and toilet paper that have left their shelves empty.
  “You don’t have to buy so much. Take it easy. Just relax,’’ Trump said, likening the buying frenzy to intense Christmas shopping. “Relax. We’re doing great. It will all pass.’’
  Dramatic effect: Coronavirus is changing everyday life across the world 
  Regarding attempts to slow the spread of a fast-moving virus that has sickened more than 167,000 and killed 6,400-plus worldwide, Trump said the U.S. is learning from what is happening in other countries.
  The coronavirus originated in China, but whereas the vast majority of the cases were contained to its mainland in the initial weeks — especially to the central province of Hubei — the number of cases elsewhere in the world has now surpassed the Chinese total. Italy, Iran, South Korea and Spain have been hit particularly hard.
  “This is a very contagious virus, it’s incredible,’’ Trump said. “But it’s something we have tremendous control of.’’
  Evidence across the country, with schools, sporting leagues and public events shutting down at an unprecedented rate over the last several days, appears to suggest otherwise.
  On Sunday, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended that gatherings be limited to 50 people or less for the next eight weeks, with the day-to-day operation of schools and businesses excepted.
  And while Vice President Mike Pence, who heads the administration’s Coronavirus Task Force, followed with measured remarks about the actions that have been taken and the ones to come to combat the public health crisis, he acknowledged 49 states have registered cases of COVID-19.
  Coronavirus tracker: Sports figures who have tested positive 
  “For the American people as a whole, the risk of serious illness remains low,’’ Pence said. “But because the risk is heavily weighted to the most vulnerable, to people with immuno-deficiencies and to people who are elderly with serious, underlying, chronic health conditions, our administration and I know state administrations will continue to focus on the most vulnerable.’’
  Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, had spent much of Sunday morning sharing his views on the federal government’s response to the pandemic, at one point saying it would take “several weeks to a few months’’ for life to return to normal.
  Fauci stood by his comments at the news conference, and added that a planned ratcheting up of testing capability will be key for how big a toll the virus takes on the country.
  “The worst is, yes, ahead for us,’’ Fauci said. “It is how we respond to that challenge that’s going to determine what the ultimate end point is going to be.’’
  Fauci referenced guidelines to be revealed tomorrow that may severely limit the number of people allowed at social establishments. On Sunday, California Gov. Gavin Newsom called for all bars to close and for restaurants to reduce occupancy in half.  Other states and cities are implementing similar measures .
  In addition to all the shutdowns to promote social distancing, public officials have been clamoring for a dramatic increase in the availability of coronavirus tests.
  Coronavirus in the US:  Here's everything to know, from symptoms to how to protect yourself 
  The steps in that direction are underway, facilitated by a partnership with commercial labs that have automated facilities, which will enhance capacity significantly, Pence said.
  “We will now have access in the days ahead to more than 2,000 labs across the country that have the equipment today to process coronavirus tests much more rapidly and at a much higher volume for the American people,’’ Pence said.
  He did not provide a specific time when supply for the tests will meet demand.
 