Clarification: This story has been updated to correct the gender of the person who died in Washington state.  
  WASHINGTON – In a rare televised news conference from the White House on Saturday, President  Donald Trump  said the risk to Americans from coronavirus remains low and that he would meet with pharmaceutical companies next week to discuss development of a vaccine.
  His comments came as the first U.S. death from the disease was reported.
  Trump and Vice President Mike Pence also announced new travel restrictions to combat the virus, which has infected more than 84,000 people and killed nearly 3,000 people globally.
  An existing travel ban on Iran will be expanded to prevent any foreign national who has been in that country in the past 14 days from entering the U.S. The administration also advised Americans not to travel to regions of Italy and South Korea that have been impacted by the virus.
  Though he continued to insist that the risk to Americans from the disease remains low, Trump acknowledged that additional cases in the U.S. are likely. Public health officials have said it could take months to develop a vaccine, but Trump said plans are moving quickly and said he would meet with pharmaceutical companies at the White House on Monday.
  "There's no need to panic," he said. "This is something that's being handled professionally."
  Trump's remarks came just hours after, speaking at a political rally in South Carolina,  he described the coronavirus outbreak as a "new hoax" perpetuated by Democrats  and suggested they were overlooking the effort his administration has made to confront the virus.
  Trump, who was surrounded by Pence, Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar and other members of the coronavirus task force, struck a more subdued tone at Saturday's news conference. He insisted he was not describing the virus as a "hoax" but that he was referring to his belief that Democrats are using the outbreak to try tohurt him politically.
  "This is very serious," he said.
  Shortly before Trump spoke, health officials confirmed that  a person in Washington state had died from the virus , the first death from the virus in the U.S.
  The person died in King County, Washington, the state's Department of Health said.
  Trump described the deceased patient as a woman who was "a medically high risk patient in her mid-50s." But King county officials said later, at a CDC briefing, that the patient was a man.
  The woman is alive.
  CDC director Robert Redfield tweeted Saturday that the agency “erroneously identified the patient as a female” in a briefing with the president and vice president. 
  So far, 22 patients in the U.S. have been diagnosed with the virus. Four are seriously ill, Trump said.
  Earlier, health officials in California, Oregon and Washington state   reported four new apparent cases of the novel coronavirus , raising concerns it is spreading through West Coast communities.
  Authorities said three of the cases – an older Northern California woman with chronic health conditions, a high school student in Everett, Washington, and an employee at a Portland, Oregon-area school – had not recently traveled overseas or had any known close contact with a traveler or an infected person.
  Fact Check: Here's what President Trump has said about the coronavirus outbreak  
  Trump's news conference marked the second time this week the president addressed reporters in the White House briefing room, an extremely rare occurrence throughout his presidency.
  During an hourlong press conference Wednesday, Trump conflicted with health officials in his administration by saying he didn’t believe the spread of the virus was “inevitable.” Trump announced at that news conference that he was putting Pence in charge of coordinating the administration's response to the virus.
  Conributing: Doug Stanglin, Grace Hauck 
  Coronavirus, explained: Everything to know about COVID-19, the deadly virus alarming the world 
 