President Donald Trump, 74, and first lady Melania Trump , 50, tested positive for COVID-19, the president tweeted early Friday, just hours after Trump announced that Hope Hicks, one of his closest advisers, tested positive for the new coronavirus. 
  From Washington to Madrid, politicians across the globe have been exposed to the virus, and in some cases caught it. Here's our watch list of presidents, prime ministers and supreme leaders who have been tested or may be at risk for infection. 
  President Trump tests positive for COVID: Here’s what we know 
  Lukashenko, 66, claimed he contracted the new coronavirus in July but was asymptomatic. He has dismissed concerns about the virus as "psychosis" and recommended drinking vodka to stay healthy. Belarus is one of the few countries that has not taken any comprehensive measures against the virus. Lukashenko is accused of rigging a recent election and has cracked down hard on peaceful protesters.
  What is happening in Belarus?: We explain the historic pro-democracy protests 
  Bolsonaro, 65, tested positive  for the new coronavirus in July after months of downplaying the virus. He said he had mild symptoms and continued working while he was sick. Bolsonaro often appears in public to shake hands with supporters and mingle with crowds, at times without a mask. He said his history as an athlete would protect him from the virus and it is nothing more than a "little cold." After announcing his illness, Bolsonaro said he would be taking hydroxychloroquine, the unproven malaria drug that he and Trump have promoted as a treatment for COVID-19. 
  Brazil's Jair Bolsonaro: He followed Trump’s COVID-19 blueprint. Cases are surging 
  In April,  British Prime Minister Boris Johnson  became the first major world leader to publicly acknowledge having COVID-19. Johnson started off with mild symptoms when he tested positive on March 27. He was rushed to the hospital on April 6 and not long after placed in intensive care. He recovered after spending several days in intensive care. Not long afterward, Johnson, 55, became a  new father . 
  Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's wife, Sophie Grégoire Trudeau, 45, tested positive for the new coronavirus in March, according to Cameron Ahmad, communications director for the prime minister. She later recovered. Canada's leader, 48, self-isolated at home for 14 days with the couple's three young children but did not test positive. He was the first major world leader to go into quarantine. 
  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , 66, tested negative for the new coronavirus, her spokesman said on March 23. The German leader went into self-isolation after she came into contact with a doctor who tested positive for coronavirus. German media reported Merkel had received an unrelated vaccination from the doctor.
  Hernández, 51, tested positive in June and then spent more than two weeks in a hospital with pneumonia symptoms. His wife, Ana García, 52, and two of his aides also tested positive for the virus.
  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu  has self-isolated on at least two occasions after an aide and his health minister tested positive for the virus in March and April. His office said the 70-year-old leader remained in quarantine both times until he was cleared by Israel's Health Ministry and his personal doctor. 
  Iran’s utmost authority for all domestic and foreign policy has seen several of his closest aides diagnosed with coronavirus. It's not known whether Khamenei, 81, and Iran's President Hassan Rouhani, 71, have ever tested positive. But more than  10% of Iran's lawmakers  have fallen ill with the disease and it has also not spared top officials, including its senior vice-president, Cabinet ministers, Revolutionary Guard members and health ministry officials. Several lawmakers have died.
  Iran, North Korea, Russia:: America's adversaries emboldened to flex their muscles amid coronavirus 
  At one point, Italy was one of the hardest-hit countries in Europe. At least two politicians have publicly disclosed positive infections: Nicola Zingaretti, 54, the leader of the country’s Democratic Party, and former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, 84. There's no indication Italy's prime minister, Giuseppe Conte, 56, has contracted the disease.  
  Lockdown in Italy: My quarantine, a worried wait for a test result – and relief 
  Abba Kyari, 67, died from complications related to coronavirus on April 17. Kyari was the trusted chief of staff to President Buhari, 77, and widely viewed as one of the most powerful people in Africa’s largest economy. It is not known if Buhari has been tested. 
  Albert, 62,  tested positive  in March, making him the first reigning monarch to publicly announce a diagnosis for the disease. He later recovered. Britain's  Prince Charles , the 71-year-old son of Queen Elizabeth II, also fell ill with the virus, in March. He said he experienced only mild symptoms. 
  Prince Albert of Monaco: Grace Kelly's son tests positive for coronavirus 
  Mishustin, 54, confirmed he was infected with coronavirus on May 1. He later recovered. Mishustin's prime minister role is considerably less powerful than Russian President Vladimir Putin's. Putin, 67, has praised a coronavirus vaccine that Russia approved for use earlier this month as effective and safe despite international skepticism because the vaccine has only been studied for two months in a few dozen people.
  Putin opponent Alexei Navalny: Poisoned with Soviet-era nerve agent Novichok, Germany finds 
  There are no officially confirmed  coronavirus cases in North Korea . This is not because there aren't any but because the secretive nation has resisted calls to share its public health information. When  Kim Jong Un, 36, disappeared  from public view earlier this year for more than two weeks, there was speculation he could be hiding from the virus.  
  The wife of Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez, 48, tested positive for the new coronavirus,  Spain's government  announced on March 15. Begoña Gómez, 45, has since recovered. 
  Two members of Sanchez’s cabinet, the minister of equality and the minister of regional affairs, have also tested positive. Other members of the cabinet had tested negative.
 