Following the Trump administration’s decision to  reroute coronavirus hospital data  first to the administration, instead of sending it to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, some data is no longer available on the CDC.gov website. 
  The information removed from the website is the hospital data that was reported to the CDC’s National Healthcare Safety Network, according to CDC spokesperson Kristen Nordlund. 
  The data includes... 
  The information appeared on the National Healthcare Safety Network  Covid-19 module page  and the CDC’s Covid-19 data tracker.
  
  
  There were 65 new suspected Covid-19 hospitalizations across New York City yesterday, Mayor Bill de Blasio announced in a press conference this morning, adding the city’s latest test positivity rate was 2%.
  The latest city data shows there are at least 332 patients being treated for the virus in ICUs. 
  Remember: These numbers were released by the city and may not line up exactly in real time with CNN’s database, which is drawn from Johns Hopkins University and the Covid Tracking Project.
  
  
  Miami hospitals have reached 95% capacity due to the growing Covid-19 pandemic, the city’s mayor, Francis Suarez, told reporters Thursday.
  The percentage of positive cases is growing at a smaller rate, Suarez said.
  The highest category of people who are getting infected are people between the ages of 18 and 34, who represent 27% of the population, Suarez said.
   “They are going back to the home and infecting everybody in the household,” according to Suarez.
  From the surveys received by the city “33.7% are reporting they are getting infected by a family member,” Suarez said, emphasizing the importance of sanitizing measures at home.
   
  
  
  After going  more than a month without speaking , President Trump and Dr. Anthony Fauci spoke by phone Wednesday despite  persistent tensions  between the White House and the administration's public health experts. 
  One official described the conversation as "good," but other officials declined to characterize the discussion.
  Last week, Fauci told the Financial Times that he last saw Trump on June 2 at the White House, and hasn't personally briefed him in at least two months. CNN has reported that Trump hasn't attended a coronavirus task force meeting in months and has turned instead to economic and political advisers as the pandemic continues to rage.
  Their conversation yesterday came as White House officials and Trump himself were attempting to distance themselves from an op-ed written by trade adviser Peter Navarro  trashing Fauci. 
  About the piece:  Trump said Navarro shouldn't have written it and White House aides said Navarro broke protocol by submitting it for publication. But the article reflected the same sentiment Trump and White House officials have been expressing publicly questioning Fauci's record.
  "Dr. Anthony Fauci has a good bedside manner with the public, but he has been wrong about everything I have interacted with him on," Navarro wrote in the USA Today op-ed.
  
  
  Argentina’s death toll due to Covid-19 has reached 2,072, with 22 new deaths in the last 24 hours, according to data released by the Ministry of Health on Thursday morning. 
  The total number of coronavirus cases stands at 111,160, with 4,250 new cases, a record daily increase.
  During the ministry’s morning briefing, Carla Vizzotti, Health Access Secretary, highlighted that 93% of the new cases belong to the Buenos Aires metro region (AMBA).
  At least 49,120 people have recovered from the virus since the pandemic started, according to health officials. 
  Argentina’s President Alberto Fernández is expected to meet different health experts and officials on Thursday in order to decide new lockdown measures in the capital and surrounding areas that would start on Saturday, Argentina’s state news agency Telam reported. 
  Fernández reimposed a lockdown in the metro area of Buenos Aires until Friday due to the spread of the virus.   
  Tulsa, Oklahoma, Mayor G.T. Bynum signed a new mask ordinance while wearing a mask himself this morning, according to a post on his Facebook page.
  The city of Tulsa has posted more information for residents on its website, including the letters of support from various organizations and the full text of the ordinance.
  The Tulsa City Council announced yesterday that it approved face-covering ordinance by a 7-2 vote. 
  Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said Russia “has nothing to do” with the hacking attacks targeting organizations involved in coronavirus vaccine development, according to state-run news agency TASS. 
  What this is about:  An  advisory published  by the UK National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) details activity by a Russian hacking group called APT29, which also goes by the name "the Dukes" or "Cozy Bear," and explicitly calls out efforts to target US, UK and Canadian vaccine research and development organizations.
  "APT29's campaign of malicious activity is ongoing, predominantly against government, diplomatic, think tank, healthcare and energy targets to steal valuable intellectual property," a press release on the advisory said.
  
  
  Tokyo recorded 286 new coronavirus cases on Thursday, which is the highest number of daily infections in the capital since the pandemic began, the capital’s metropolitan government said. This surpasses its last daily record of 243 cases on July 10.
  Japan saw 453 new coronavirus cases nationwide on Wednesday, the Health Ministry announced Thursday, bringing the total number of cases for the country to 23,602 (22,890 on land and 712 on  Diamond Princess cruise ship ). 
  The total death toll stands at 998 (985 on land and 13 on the cruise ship.)
  Two prefectures have also recorded their highest number of daily infections since lifting the state of emergency on May 25. Osaka, the second biggest city in Japan, confirmed 66 cases on Thursday, while Kanagawa prefecture, adjacent to Tokyo, recorded 48 cases on Thursday. 
  Tokyo raised the alert level for coronavirus infections in the capital to the highest of four levels Wednesday.
  
  
  Coronavirus cases are rising across the US, and at least 39 states have reported an increase in the number of new cases from the week before. 
  We're keeping an eye on several hotspots today, where the spiking numbers of cases have created hospital bed shortages and  prompted officials to prepare for the worst.  
  Here's what you need to know about the US's hardest-hit hotspots:
  Arizona 
  California 
  Florida 
  Texas 
  
 