Gov. Andy Beshear said Tuesday afternoon he does not foresee Kentucky holding traditional in-person elections June 23.
  "There is no way, especially in June, that I'm going to put our typical poll workers, sitting in a room, and have them exposed to the coronavirus," Beshear said during his daily press briefing.
  "I do not believe we will have a normal, typical election," Beshear continued. "There may be some need for certain populations, based on disability or others, to have some way to vote other than other options we're looking at it.
  "But right now, I would say I'm very strongly leaning at an election where there is never a line of people, and we don't have primarily our seniors sitting there in the polling location."
  Beshear and Secretary of State Michael Adams announced March 16 that the primary, originally scheduled for May 19, would be pushed back by 35 days because of the coronavirus pandemic.
  Related: Beshear moves forward on mail-in voting plans, as Trump pans idea as bad for GOP 
  "Obviously, the hope is that by June 23, the worst will be over and we'll be able to have an election that's as normal as possible," Adams said as the time. "The other possibility is that we won't be back to normal. This will give us time to assess changes that we can make in our election system as to location — potentially even as to method — to make sure that we can have a smooth election."
  The relationship between the two has become more strained.
  On Monday, Beshear  issued a line-item veto of House Bill 351 , striking a section that would have given the secretary of state more power in approving changes to elections during a state of emergency.
  "Governor Beshear misused his power in order to make himself the chief election official," Adams wrote in a tweet Tuesday, adding that the General Assembly should override the line-item veto.
  [This story is being provided for free to our readers during the coronavirus outbreak. Consider supporting local journalism by subscribing to The Courier Journal at  courier-journal.com/subscribe/ . ] 
  Beshear's comments Tuesday come a little less than a week after he said he wants to move forward with plans to expand mail-in voting for Kentucky's primary because of the pandemic.
  U.S. President Donald Trump has repeatedly opposed the voting method, writing in a tweet last Wednesday: "Republicans should fight very hard when it comes to statewide mail-in voting."
  Asked if he agreed with the sentiment of the president's tweet, Adams sent The Courier Journal a statement indicating support.
  “I agree with the president that Congress should not take over our elections and impose a one-size-fits-all system," Adams stated. "As in other policy areas, what works on the West Coast would not work for Kentucky.”
  Also: Beshear delays Kentucky primary until June because of coronavirus pandemic 
  Although Adams campaigned against mail-in voting in his race last year, he recently indicated he is more open to the idea if the threat of COVID-19 persists, even testifying for legislation that could allow Beshear to expand absentee voting by mail.
  Beshear's thoughts on the Kentucky primary came  as the General Assembly voted to override his veto on a controversial voter ID bill , which Adams championed.
  Beshear expressed frustration with the override during his press briefing, saying "I don't know how somebody gets an ID during the coronavirus when every place you get it would be closed."
  "I think that this is a decision being made in a world like we don't have an international health pandemic," Beshear said. "Can't they at least wait until the next session when we're not facing this?"
  Contact Ben Tobin at  bjtobin@gannett.com  and 502-582-4181 or follow on Twitter  @TobinBen . Support strong local journalism by subscribing today:  subscribe.courier-journal.com . 
 