[This briefing has ended.  Read the latest updates on the coronavirus epidemic here .] 
  Travelers were reporting  long lines  and  confusion  at U.S. airports on Saturday as  the president’s new European travel restrictions  went into effect. 
  In addition to barring foreigners from 26 European countries, President Trump’s new restrictions funnel Americans to designated airports in New York City, Chicago, San Francisco, Seattle, Honolulu, Los Angeles, Atlanta, Virginia, Detroit, Dallas, Newark, Boston and Miami. The travelers were undergoing enhanced health screenings, and the crush of Americans returning from Europe appeared to be making those screenings that much harder.
  Frustrated travelers shared images of the long lines on social media.
  Rhea Paul, 70, a speech language pathology professor, landed at Kennedy International Airport at about noon on Saturday and said the American Airlines pilot made no mention of the coronavirus or what would happen once they got to New York during the eight-hour flight from Paris.
  When they landed, U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents wearing paper and plastic masks boarded the plane and handed passengers a questionnaire to fill out before leaving the plane. On the jetway, an agent took each person’s temperature. 
  John Mixon, 86, a retired law professor, said he waited nearly two hours at Kennedy International Airport after arriving from Amman, Jordan, missing his connecting flight to Houston because of the slow screening process.
  Mr. Mixon said he and his wife were shuffled into a packed room with more than 100 others for hours before a few C.D.C. officials came in and asked everyone if they had been to China or Italy. Only one man raised his hand, and everyone else was told they could leave after getting their temperatures taken, Mr. Mixon said.
  Since January, officers from Customs and Border Protection have been on heightened alert for travelers who might spread the virus. The Department of Homeland Security has told employees to look for physical symptoms, search through travel documents and review a federal tracking database. 
  Members of Congress this week grilled senior Homeland Security officials over what some described as a porous screening process. Even top officials at the department acknowledge that fully sealing the United States from the virus is impossible.
  “We are trying to reduce and delay the biggest peak in the virus wave hitting on the United States of America,” said Kenneth T. Cuccinelli II, the acting deputy secretary of Homeland Security. “And all of these steps reduce and delay. They do not stop the virus.”
  President Trump tested negative for the coronavirus, his doctor said in a memo released Saturday evening. The president’s health had been a concern since he spent time at his Florida resort last weekend with a Brazilian official who was later found to have the illness.
  “One week after having dinner with the Brazilian delegation at Mar-a-Lago, the president remains symptom-free,” said Dr. Sean P. Conley, Mr. Trump’s doctor, in that memo.
  At a news conference earlier Saturday, Mr. Trump announced that he had been tested for the coronavirus on Friday night and was awaiting the results. Vice President Mike Pence also announced the extension of the administration’s European travel ban to the United Kingdom and Ireland.
  Whether the president would be tested had been a matter of speculation since it first emerged that a member of a Brazilian delegation that visited Mar-a-Lago had tested positive. Two other people who were with the president at Mar-a-Lago have tested positive, and various members of Congress have been self-isolating after interacting with some of those same people. 
  Mr. Trump, wearing a “USA” baseball cap, said he decided to be tested for the coronavirus after his news conference on Friday, during which he declared a national emergency. 
  “People were asking, did I take the test,” he said.
  Asked when he expected to have the result, Mr. Trump said, “A day, two days.”
  “They send it to a lab,” he said.
  It was unclear if Mr. Pence, who interacted with some of the infected Mar-a-Lago visitors,    had known that the president was tested. Asked about his own status, Mr. Pence said, “I’m going to speak immediately after this news conference with the White House physician’s office,” which he said had previously advised him that neither he nor his wife needed to be tested. 
  The White House has begun checking the temperatures of anyone in close contact with Mr. Trump or Mr. Pence. White House staff checked the temperatures of everyone arriving at the news conference.
  Reporters pressed Mr. Trump about “mixed messages,” asking about why he shook hands with a row of chief executives who attended his news conference on Friday where he announced a national emergency. 
  “It almost becomes a habit and you get out of that habit,” he said, noting that “getting away from shaking hands is a good thing.”
  Mr. Pence said that, effective at midnight Monday night, the federal government’s European travel ban would apply to the United Kingdom and Ireland. 
  The House passed  a sweeping relief package  to assist people affected by the outbreak, after a roller-coaster day of negotiations on Friday, and it now goes to the Senate.
  At the news conference, Mr. Trump signaled his approval of the measures, which he noted had bipartisan support.
  “It was very nice to see it,” he said.
  Spain and France announced drastic, countrywide restrictions on Saturday to contain the spread of the coronavirus. 
  Spain ordered all citizens to confine themselves to their homes — and to leave only to buy food, go to work, seek medical care or assist the elderly and others in need. 
  Officials in Spain reported 1,500 new cases, the largest daily increase in the country so far, pushing its total to 5,753. The government ordered all schools, restaurants and bars to close, extending measures that various regional authorities, including in Madrid and in Catalonia, had taken on Friday.
  Also on Saturday, Spanish authorities said the wife of Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez, Begoña Gómez, had tested positive for the virus.
  France announced the  closing of all “non-indispensable” businesses as of midnight , including restaurants, bars, and movie theaters, after a sharp uptick in the assault from the coronavirus. French cases doubled over the last 72 hours to about 4,500. There have been 91 deaths, and 300 coronavirus patients are in critical condition —    half of them under 60 years of age.
  The measures in both countries follow similar moves in Italy, the hardest hit country in Europe. Italy has been locked down since early in the week, with only groceries, pharmacies and banks allowed to operate.    On Saturday, the country reported 175 new deaths, with a total of 1,441, and 2,795 new cases, with the total crossing 21,000. 
  Officials in Louisiana, New York, Oregon and Virginia reported their first deaths tied to the coronavirus on Saturday as the number of known cases nationally surged past 2,500. By evening, 49 states, plus Puerto Rico and Washington, D.C., had confirmed cases of the illness. Only West Virginia was without a diagnosis.
  Nationwide, businesses, schools and public officials continued to struggle with an outbreak that has left more than 50 people dead and upended nearly all aspects of public life. More than 400 new cases have been reported in each of the last three days. Many churches canceled plans for Sunday worship or urged their members to watch online instead of coming in person.
  In the Omaha area, officials reported the first known instance of community spread. In Illinois, a nursing facility where a woman tested positive for the virus was placed on lockdown. And in Pittsburgh, where the first local cases were announced on Saturday, city leaders urged bars to promote social distancing by limiting the number of people they allowed inside.
  Elsewhere, officials were making provisions to house and isolate large numbers of people with the virus. 
  The closing of schools in  more than a dozen states  continues to create concerns that children may miss meals and parents may not be able to stay home from work. 
  After Los Angeles Unified School District announced it was closing, school officials said that they would open 40  family resource centers  to provide child care and meals to students whose parents cannot get out of work. North Carolina on Saturday became the latest state to close its public schools. 
  
  Mayor Bill de Blasio, under  increasing pressure to close New York City schools , has refused to cancel classes, maintaining that the schools are a lifeline for the city’s most vulnerable. But the number of known cases in New York continues to rise, with more than 500 by Saturday evening, mostly in and around New York City. Officials announced the deaths of a woman in New York City and a man in Rockland County on Saturday, the state’s first attributed to the virus. And two members of the State Assembly  tested positive  for the coronavirus. 
  
  An Italian couple tested positive for the coronavirus    in San Juan, Puerto Rico late on Friday, five days after they disembarked a cruise ship heading across the Atlantic. 
  Costa Cruises, an Italian subsidiary of Miami-based Carnival Corp., says the ship, the Costa Luminosa is now heading to Marseille, France. 
  The Costa Luminosa set sail on March 5 from Fort Lauderdale, Fla., for a trans-Atlantic voyage. The ship called for an ambulance when it docked in San Juan on Sunday, March 8. 
  Puerto Rican doctors suspected that the woman, 68, had the coronavirus and hospitalized her. Her husband, 70, was asymptomatic. By the time Puerto Rico announced the hospitalization, hundreds of passengers had spent the day mingling in colonial Old San Juan, and the ship had left port. 
  It took five more days to confirm the cases. The island had no tests, so samples were taken from the couple and sent to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. 
  Gov. Wanda Vázquez of Puerto Rico called the delay “unacceptable.” 
  All the while, the Costa Luminosa has been at sea, passengers circulating freely. Shows have been canceled, but the gym, pool and Jacuzzi remain open. Only on Saturday did the crew rework the lunch buffet to serve passengers directly, said Kathryn Bitner, a 66-year-old passenger from San Diego, Calif.
  “No one I know of has been tested in our ship,” Ms. Bitner said in a WhatsApp message.
  Costa Cruises said that the ship was not in quarantine, but that the “sanitary protocol” on board had been increased and close contacts of the passengers who tested positive had been isolated in their cabins. Costa Cruises also said that it was instituting a daily temperature check for crew and passengers. 
  The passengers were told that because they had been turned away by Spain, they would head to Marseille, France, with an expected arrival on Thursday. A statement on the company’s website said that all Italian passengers on board would disembark in Savona, Italy.
  Georgia will postpone its March 24 presidential primary  for nearly two months, officials said Saturday, becoming the second state to delay voting in response to the coronavirus outbreak.
  The move comes as officials in the next four states scheduled to vote in the primary — Arizona, Florida, Illinois and Ohio — have all indicated they intend to hold their elections on Tuesday as planned, issuing a joint statement on Friday expressing confidence that ballots can be safely cast.
  Louisiana on Friday became the first state to postpone its primary, announcing that the April 4 election would be delayed by more than two months.
  The Georgia primary will now be held May 19. The sudden decision by Georgia, announced Saturday night, comes as the viral outbreak  has upended the presidential campaigns  and people worry about gatherings and places where they might become infected.
  
  Israel’s prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, said on Saturday that digital and technological means would be employed to track citizens known to have contracted the virus, an extraordinary measure he said was drawn from Israel’s war on terrorism. 
  In a televised address on Saturday night, he said that Israel was “at war” against an “invisible enemy.”
  [Read:  To track coronavirus, Israel moves to tap secret trove of cellphone data .] 
  Acknowledging that the surveillance would impinge on personal privacy, Mr. Netanyahu said he had sought and received permission from the Justice Ministry.
  As the country’s caseload rose to nearly 200, the government mandated the closure of all leisure venues starting    on Sunday, including cafes, restaurants, gyms and cultural institutions. Public gatherings are to be limited to 10 people,    and workers have been told to work from home if possible. 
  Many other countries increased restrictions: 
  On Friday, President Trump announced at  a news conference in the Rose Garden  that Verily, a life sciences subsidiary of Google’s parent company, was helping to develop a website that would sharply expand testing for the virus, falsely claiming that “Google has 1,700 engineers working on this right now” and adding that “they’ve made tremendous progress.”
  In the hours after the president’s remarks, Google officials distanced themselves from the project, directing question to Verily, where a spokeswoman said the company was merely “in the early stages of development.”
  The project at Verily — which has a total of about 1,000 employees — has a pilot program planned for the San Francisco area, but has yet to unveil a website and identify testing locations. The coronavirus tests themselves are not yet widely available.
  The president’s effort to sell the website as a significant response to an urgent public health crisis came amid a national outcry over the administration’s repeated failures to deliver on promises to quickly expand access to testing for the virus. The disconnect between Mr. Trump’s exuberant comments and the project’s more modest expectations was the latest example of the president exaggerating, overselling or making wholly inaccurate statements about  his administration’s response to the virus , even as facts on the ground contradicted his rosy assessments of progress.
  Since then, Google executives have scrambled to coordinate with the White House in an effort to do as much as possible to make the president’s vision for the website a reality. On Saturday, Google placed a link on its home page — a rare use of its digital canvass — to encourage people to take steps to prevent spreading the virus.
  In addition, Google said it was working on a separate “national informational website” to provide information on virus symptoms and testing sites.
  Administration officials on Saturday sought to play down expectations, saying that Verily’s website could provide significant help in the fight against the virus if it operated only in the nine biggest hot spots around the country.
  
  Italy is locked down, in the face of what is so far Europe’s most severe coronavirus outbreak. Italians, however,  are still getting their voices heard . 
  At precisely noon on Saturday, millions of Italians, from Piedmont to Sicily, leaned out of windows or stood on their balconies to applaud the health care workers in hospitals and other front-line medical staff who have been working round the clock to care for coronavirus patients. 
  As church bells normally drowned out by traffic pealed in the surreal silence that defines Italy since Wednesday’s lockdown, applause filled streets, piazzas and even country roads, after messages went viral on social media calling Italians to put their hands together.
  There was a similar response to another online appeal Friday evening, asking Italians to sing the national anthem — or play it on a musical instrument — at exactly 6 p.m. The socially distant flash mob swept social media.
  Naturally, not everyone is blessed with a voice like Pavarotti. Some Italians preferred banging on pots and calling out, “We will make it.”
  It’s unclear who began the musical interlude, but in the land that gave the world opera, it’s clearly not meant to be a cacophonous mess, and a program for more songs is spreading online. At 6 p.m. on Saturday, Italians will sing “Azzurro,” a 1968 hit by the singer Adriano Celentano, and on Sunday, “Ma il cielo è sempre più blu,” by Rino Gaetano, which topped the charts in 1975.
  As thousands of Americans flee from Europe and other centers of the coronavirus outbreak, many travelers are reporting no health screenings upon departure and few impediments at U.S. airports.
  Since January, officers from Customs and Border Protection have been on heightened alert for travelers who might spread the virus. The Department of Homeland Security has told employees to look for physical symptoms, search through travel documents and review a federal tracking database. 
  But travelers, including some who say they showed visible signs of illness, say screening has been lax. Members of Congress this week grilled senior Homeland Security officials over what some described as a porous screening process. 
  Even top officials at the department acknowledge that fully sealing the United States from the virus is impossible.
  “We are trying to reduce and delay the biggest peak in the virus wave hitting on the United States of America,” said Kenneth T. Cuccinelli II, the acting deputy secretary of Homeland Security.    “And all of these steps reduce and delay. They do not stop the virus.”
  Amid a surge of false information on the new coronavirus, Apple said on Saturday that it will only allow virus-related apps from recognized health authorities — like government agencies, health nonprofits and medical institutions — in its app store. 
  The company also said that it would prohibit virus-themed entertainment or game apps. 
  Other big tech companies like  Facebook, YouTube and Twitter  have said they were working with authorities like the World Health Organization to combat conspiracy theories and misleading medical advice about the virus and to point people to credible sources of information on it.
  Apple’s announcement came one day after it  closed most of its stores worldwide , becoming one of the first major retailers to take such drastic measures.
  The company’s chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, said that Apple would shutter all stores until March 27, excluding those in mainland China — where infections have significantly declined recently — and in Hong Kong and Taiwan. 
  “The most effective way to minimize risk of the virus’s transmission is to reduce density and maximize social distance,” Mr. Cook said in a statement posted to the company’s website.    
  Many firms around the world are contemplating similar measures. Patagonia, the outdoor-clothing retailer, said on Friday that it would shut its stores until late March. Urban Outfitters, the apparel company, announced on Saturday evening that it was also closing its chains “until further notice.” Taco Bell followed soon after with a statement, saying it was preparing to limit service to drive-through and delivery only “where necessary.” Starbucks has said it would consider closing stores temporarily as a “last resort.”
  The virus has already taken a toll on many businesses, disrupting supply chains and hurting demand in critical markets. 
  Apple recently reopened all of its 42 stores in China, after closing them for more than a month. But the company has struggled to ramp up production of smartphones amid delays at its factories in China. 
  More schools are closing, more companies are asking employees to work remotely. Here are some tips to help you work from home more efficiently, and balance home schooling for your children.
  And here is more coverage on how the coronavirus affects your day-to-day life  here .
  
  Several hospitals in New York and Washington — the two U.S. states with the  most reported coronavirus cases  — are canceling elective surgeries. The goal is to reduce workloads for health care workers and minimize the chance that new patients contract the virus.
  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, in its  latest   guidance , urged hospitals in the area around Seattle and another hard-hit region, New Rochelle, N.Y., to cancel all nonurgent procedures and consider suspending admission of new patients for 30 days.
  Seattle Children’s Hospital, a 407-bed facility in Seattle, canceled surgeries, a step that could also preserve crucial protective equipment, including gloves and masks, and reduce the number of people to whom the hospital’s medical workers are exposed, a hospital spokeswoman said.
  Overlake Medical Center in Bellevue, Wash., and Swedish Medical Center, a hospital system with several campuses in Washington State, also announced that they would halt nonemergency surgeries at their hospitals.
  “This action is directly related to our efforts to effectively respond to Covid-19 care and prevention,” Swedish said in a statement.
  Two of the  largest hospital systems in the Northeast  — New York City’s Health and Hospitals Corporation and NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital — announced similar moves. 
  
  
 