Dozens of malls are closing, two U.S. congressmen tested positive, the U.S. Census suspended field operations and stocks took another hit Wednesday as the coronavirus tightened its grip on the globe.
  The U.S. death toll jumped to 150 across 22 states — including the first reported fatalities in Connecticut, Michigan, Missouri and Pennsylvania — and America's sense of normal continued to evolve. President Donald Trump's promise of financial assistance  did provide hope  to the potentially millions of workers facing layoffs and furloughs.
  "For the people that are now out of work because of the important and necessary containment policies, for instance the shutting down of hotels, bars and restaurants, money will soon be coming to you," Trump tweeted.
  Later Wednesday, Trump signed a Senate-approved multibillion-dollar emergency aid package that will provide paid sick and family leave for many Americans while also offering free testing for the coronavirus and bolstering unemployment insurance.
  There were more than 9,400 confirmed cases in the U.S. late Wednesday night, according to  the Johns Hopkins University data dashboard . One week ago, the U.S. death toll had climbed to 33, the number of U.S. cases rolled past 1,300, and federal health officials said the virus had spread to at least 38 states.
  Worldwide, the virus has killed more than 8,700 people, with more than 217,000 confirmed infections. A week ago, the death toll had reached 4,600.
  This is USA TODAY's live blog from  Wednesday.  Tap here for Thursday's news .  More headlines: 
  President Donald Trump  signed a sweeping multibillion-dollar emergency aid package  Wednesday night that will provide paid sick leave for Americans who are in quarantine, helping a family member who is infected with COVID-19 or have children whose schools have closed as a result of the coronavirus outbreak.
  The bill also offers free testing for coronavirus and boosts unemployment insurance, food assistance and federal funding for Medicaid as part of an ongoing effort by Washington to combat the rapid spread of the pandemic. 
  – Courtney Subramanian  
  Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart, R-Fla., announced Wednesday that he has tested positive, becoming the first known member of Congress to contract the rapidly spreading virus.
  Hours later, Rep. Ben McAdams, a Democrat from Utah, announced  he had also tested positive  for coronavirus.
  Diaz-Balart, who represents parts of Miami and South Florida, said in a statement that he decided to self-quarantine in Washington on Friday because his wife has pre-existing conditions, and thus is more susceptible to contracting the virus. Diaz-Balart, 58, said the following day he started to show symptoms that included a fever and headache. He was told of the positive test Wednesday.
  "I want everyone to know that I am feeling much better," he said in a statement.
  McAdams, the lone Democrat representing Utah in the U.S. House, released a statement saying that he consulted his daughter on Sunday after developing cold-like symptoms the night before after returning to Utah from Washington, D.C. He said he later developed a fever, dry cough and labored breathing and self-quarantined.
  "On Tuesday, my doctor instructed me to get tested for COVID-19 and following his referral, I went to the local testing clinic for the test," he said in the written statement.
  Members of Congress have been worried about the prospects of contracting the virus, with some arguing that lawmakers should be able to vote remotely to avoid traveling back and forth to Washington. At least 15 lawmakers so far have gone into self-quarantine after coming into contact or being in the vicinity of someone who has tested positive for the virus.
  –Christal Hayes, USA TODAY, and David DeMille, St. George (Utah) Spectrum & Daily News 
  Oregon Gov. Kate Brown on Wednesday directed all Oregon hospitals, outpatient clinics, and health care providers to cease all non-emergency procedures. The order includes veterinarians and dentists. 
  The order, which also limits hospital visitation, is meant to "preserve personal protective equipment (PPE), such as surgical masks, gowns, and gloves, for health care workers treating COVID-19 patients," according to a statement from the governor's office. 
  “It is critical that we preserve every piece of personal protective equipment we have in Oregon so that our health care workers can keep themselves safe while treating COVID-19 patients,” Brown said in a statement. “If we do not take immediate action, the surge in demand in our hospitals for masks, gowns, and gloves will quickly outstrip the limited supplies they have available. We cannot let that happen."
  Brown also ordered all colleges and universities in the state to move to an online learning model through at least April 28.
  – Jordan Culver 
  Australian Prime Minister Scott Morris announced a ban on all travel to the country for non-residents at a press conference Thursday. The ban will be enforced starting at 9 p.m. Friday, local time, allowing for planes currently en route to land.
  In a single day, Australia had a massive surge in confirmed cases, going from 110 to 568.
  Colorado Gov. Jared Polis on Wednesday signed an executive order that will keep public and private school students in the state learning via remote means until April 17.
  The order directs "Colorado school districts and the Charter School Institute to make every effort to provide alternative learning opportunities during this time while taking into account the needs of local communities," according to a statement from the governor's office. 
  Colorado's Public Health Department issued an order adhering to guidance announced by President Donald Trump, which recommends people  avoid social gatherings of 10 or more people . Polis also extended the state's suspension of downhill ski area operations from March 22 to April 6.
  – Jordan Culver 
  Simon Property Group, the largest owner of shopping malls in the nation, is  closing all of its malls and retail properties  because of the coronavirus outbreak.
  The closings start at 7 p.m. local time Wednesday and are expected to end March 29, the Indianapolis-based company said in a news release.
  The closings come after several department stores, from Macy's and J.C. Penney to Nordstrom and other mall brands including Gap, Victoria's Secret and Sephora, announced they are also temporarily closing locations.
  The closings include the company's 209 U.S. properties, which include malls and premium outlets in 38 states and Puerto Rico.
  – Kelly Tyko 
  Here's a rare bit of convenience brought on by the coronavirus: The Transportation Security Administration is allowing passengers whose driver's licenses expired beginning March 1 to still get on planes.
  Because of the current crisis,  the agency said it would accepted expired licenses  at security checkpoints "a year after the expiration date, plus 60 days after the duration of the COVID-19 national emergency.''
  The TSA is also relaxing its rule about bringing liquids in carry-on bags when it comes to hand sanitizers, permitting containers of those cleaners that hold as many as 12 ounces, nearly four times the usual limit. However, those containers will be screened separately, which may delay the process.
  The usual restrictions of 3.4 ounces still apply to other liquids and gels.  
  Some retailers are setting aside time  for their most vulnerable customers to shop . The elderly and people with underlying health conditions are more susceptible to COVID-19, so some retailers are dedicating time or opening earlier for senior shoppers and other at-risk groups.
  Beginning Thursday, Walmart stores will be open from 7 a.m. to 8:30 p.m local time. Stores that open later than 7 a.m. will continue their regular starting hours, Walmart said Wednesday night. From March 24 through April 28,  Walmart will host an hour-long senior shopping event every Tuesday  for customers 60 and older, which will start one hour before stores open.
  All Target stores  will dedicate an hour of shopping each week  for the elderly and those with underlying health concerns. Albertsons, which has 2,200-plus stores under banners including Safeway, Acme and Vons, says it is reserving two hours every Tuesday and Thursday morning for vulnerable shoppers, including senior citizens, pregnant women or those with compromised immune systems. Whole Foods Market stores will let customers who are 60 and older shop one hour before opening to the public. The company, owned by Amazon, has approximately 500 stores in the U.S., U.K., Canada.
  – Kelly Tyko 
  The agency best known for deporting undocumented immigrants is holding off on some of those duties during the coronavirus epidemic.
  U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said  that starting Wednesday it would focus on immigrants who are a risk to public safety and those subject to detention because of crimes.
  In regard to all others, ICE operations "will exercise discretion to delay enforcement actions until after the crisis or utilize alternatives to detention, as appropriate,'' the agency said in a statement.
  To encourage immigrants with COVID-19 to seek proper treatment without fear of being detained, ICE also said it would not conduct enforcement operations near hospitals and other healthcare facilities "except in the most extraordinary of circumstances.''
  A week after the once-a-decade census began, the work of  counting every resident in the U.S. is being curtailed. 
  Census Bureau Director Steven Dillingham said in a posting that  field operations will be suspended immediately  for two weeks because of the coronavirus pandemic. The posting said the decision was made to protect the public, census employees and those applying for census taker positions. Further adjustments to this pause could be forthcoming.
  Census takers are currently scheduled to start visiting in late May the households that haven't responded, but the timing could be delayed.
  "The public is strongly encouraged to respond to the 2020 Census online using a desktop computer, laptop, smartphone, or tablet, and can also respond by phone or mail,'' the posting said. "Everyone should respond to the 2020 Census as soon as they receive their invitation.''
  The Pentagon is sending a hospital ship that can hold up to 1,000 beds to New York City's harbor, Gov. Andrew Cuomo announced. Cuomo shot down the mayor's suggestion that the city would soon face a "shelter-in-place" order. Cuomo also issued an executive order saying no business can have more than half of their workforce report to work outside of their homes.
  Nearly 2,400 cases of coronavirus have been confirmed in New York, by far the largest figure of any state, representing 30% of the national total. The number of cases in New York increased by more than 1,000 from Tuesday to Wednesday. 
  Cuomo has been scrambling to obtain more ventilators and more hospital beds for the city and state, warning that COVID-19 cases are going to boom.
  To contain the growth in cases, Mayor Bill de Blasio had warned that the city's 8 million residents could soon be ordered to shelter in their homes except for food shopping and emergencies. Cuomo, however, flatly rejected the idea again Wednesday, saying a lockdown would drive people to stay with friends and family outside the city.
  "We are fighting a war against this pandemic and we know that two of the most effective ways to stop it is by reducing density and increasing our hospital capacity so our healthcare system is not overwhelmed," Cuomo said. "The deployment of the USNS Comfort to New York is an extraordinary but necessary step.''
  U.S. stocks  dropped precipitously  as lockdowns and restrictions rattled investors despite Washington’s promises for economic aid. The Dow Jones industrial averages fell almost 8%, and Standard & Poor’s 500 also sank. Stocks quickly gave back the strong gains from a  day earlier after Trump promised aid to get the U.S. economy through the outbreak.
  “There’s no clarity. We don’t know what the real effects from these monetary and fiscal policies are going to be,” says Rich Sega, global chief investment strategist at asset manager Conning. “We need to see data that shows that the infection rate has peaked."
  – Jessica Menton 
  Trump said he's invoking the Defense Production Act, which allows the administration to  expedite and expand supplies and resources . Trump did not say specifically what powers he would execute, but the act could allow him to step up production of respirators and other medical equipment.
  "We need millions of masks,” Trump said. “We need respirators."
  The announcement comes as the White House and Congress negotiate a trillion-dollar economic stimulus plan to combat the impacts of the coronavirus outbreak. Trump also said health officials are working on a "self swab" coronavirus test that would allow front line health care workers to test themselves for the virus.
  – John Fritze and Courtney Subramanian 
  The face of the federal government’s response to the coronavirus pandemic is pleading for young people to  embrace the new guidelines  that aim to prevent spread of COVID-19.
  Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said he understood the feeling of invulnerability that often accompanies youth, but emphasized the importance of members of all age groups doing their part in curbing the crisis.
  “I want to appeal specifically to the people who are the younger group,’’ Fauci said in an interview hosted by the Journal of the American Medical Association. “They have a responsibility in society to protect themselves, not only because there is a possibility they could have a serious consequence, but as important is that they may be the vectors of the infection that could continue its spread.’’
  Though studies in China and South Korea indicate people in their 20s and 30s have largely avoided the most severe effects of COVID-19, recent reports from Europe reveal members of that age group getting seriously sick.
  Fauci said that in a morning call with the World Health Organization, representatives from Italy and France appealed for millennials elsewhere to take the disease seriously and avoid large gatherings.
  He acknowledged the guidelines unveiled Monday are inconvenient to follow, but said they’re critical to keeping the outbreak from getting exponentially worse.
  “It happens all of a sudden, very abruptly,’’ Fauci said. “You have some cases, not a lot of cases, and then all of a sudden, boom, it starts to skyrocket. And the best time to mitigate is before that happens, because if you wait until after it happens, you’re playing catch-up, and catch-up doesn’t work very well with this outbreak.’’
  The border between Canada and the U.S. will  close for non-essential travel . Trump confirmed the news in a tweet on Wednesday: "We will be, by mutual consent, temporarily closing our Northern Border with Canada to non-essential traffic. Trade will not be affected. Details to follow!" Trump tweeted.
  On Monday, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced he was closing the country's border to noncitizens, but American citizens had been exempt. Trudeau is in self-isolating – his wife, Sophie Grégoire Trudeau, has tested positive for coronavirus.
  – David Oliver 
  Trump pledged a  bailout for airlines, hotels and other travel businesses  that have seen business crater in reaction to restrictions and decreased demand due to the coronavirus. 
  Trump singled out the airline industry as most deserving of assistance but also mentioned other travel businesses. He said details of a bailout haven't yet been fully developed, including where the lines will be drawn that will decide which industries are eligible for relief.
  "Airlines would be No. 1," the president said. "You go from having the best year they have ever had to having no passengers because of what we have had to do to win this war – and it's a war."
  Trump also mentioned hotels and the cruise ships industries as being "prime candidates" for a bailout.
  – Chris Woodyard  
  President Donald Trump referred to COVID-19 as the  "Chinese virus" in several tweets Wednesday  despite claims of prejudice from some Democratic leaders of color. In one post addressing Americans laid off because of the virus' economic impact, he wrote, "The onslaught of the Chinese Virus is not your fault!"
  The Democratic lawmakers had implored Trump and other leaders to "stick to expert guidance and not spread xenophobia." Pressed on the issue Tuesday, Trump said China had been sowing misinformation about the virus' origins, and "rather than having an argument, I said I have to call it where it came from; it did come from China."
  – Nicholas Wu 
  Paradise is not closed yet, but it's better if you go another time.
  Hawaii Gov. David Ige is encouraging visitors to postpone their island vacations for at least the next 30 days as the state tries to slow the spread of the coronavirus.
  Ige announced the request along with a series of measures aimed at slowing down the virus. Among them, gathering are limited to no more than 10 people, all bars must close and restaurants can serve food only through takeout, delivery and drive-thrus.
  “The actions I’m announcing today may seem extreme to some of you, and we know that it will have negative effects to our economy,” Ige said. “But we are confident that taking aggressive actions now will allow us to have a quicker recovery when this crisis is over.”
  Tourism accounts for nearly one-fifth of the state's jobs.
  As the coronavirus pandemic spreads around the world,  hundreds of our readers across the nation have asked us questions  about COVID-19.  We're answering them .
  Fact check:  Does using  ibuprofen  when you have coronavirus  make symptoms worse ?
  Need a lift?  Coronavirus ruined their  Las Vegas wedding , so this Michigan couple improvised. 
  Self-isolation, domestic violence:   What do you do when the danger is at home. 
  Six counties in the San Francisco Bay Area have been ordered to  shelter in place.  If you get the same order,  what does that mean? 
  Too many coronavirus patients, too few ventilators:   Italy's hospital situation could be a stark preview of what's next for U.S. 
  LGBTQ community may be 'particularly vulnerable'  to coronavirus pandemic.  Here's why. 
  Get updates in your inbox.   Sign up for our newsletter .
  Here are additional important stories from USA TODAY:
  Contributing: The Associated Press 
 