It is hard to decide what is more troubling during the new  coronavirus crisis , the angry protesters demanding that  businesses be reopened , or the handful of governors who seem captive to their premature demands.
  Many protesters have ignored public health edicts, exposed themselves and others to COVID-19, and put our nation’s hodgepodge efforts to mitigate the pandemic at risk.
  They could be dismissed as the fed-up eruptions of a relative few. But their demonstrations are large enough that one or more could be the conduit for a regional escalation of the coronavirus. They are without doubt infecting certain politicians, who are spreading the disease to others in the form of plans to reopen businesses before it is safe to do so.
  Florida and Georgia, two states where Trump-allied governors have  announced reopening plans , might not have reached a peak in the spread of the disease, let alone the 14 days of decline specified in White House guidelines. In both states, the number of  new coronavirus cases has trickled up  again in recent days after showing some modest progress.
  Kentucky, which has not announced any plans to reopen, experienced its  worst COVID-19 day on Sunday , after boisterous protesters poured into the state capital of Frankfort last week.
  OPPOSING VIEW: Protests raise awareness of people’s suffering 
  Americans are blessed with rights of speech and assembly, but they are not given rights to put others at risk of falling ill and even dying.
  No one likes the stay-at-home orders and the edicts that restaurants, entertainment venues and other public spaces remain closed. The economic harm is real and enormous. Nonetheless, in the absence of a vaccine or proven treatment for COVID-19, the restrictions are effective and necessary for the time being.
  Had states acted earlier, not only would the death count be lower now, but also the leading-edge states would likely be seeing their numbers dropping faster and would be able to contemplate some limited reopening without inviting a second wave.
  A rush to reopen now could mean that case declines in the early and hard-hit states like  California, New York and Louisiana  are offset by increasing numbers in the more cavalier states. The virus doesn't recognize state lines. What happens in Georgia doesn't necessarily stay in Georgia. 
  Premature reopenings could push back the real date at which the nation's economy can recover, which is not when politicians decree it but when most everyday Americans feel safe going into restaurants, getting on airplanes and such.
  In addition to being hazardous to public health, the lockdown protests reflect a sorry strain of contemporary American conservatism. When Ronald Reagan was president, conservatism was brash, confident and very much in the ascendancy. Now it is increasingly angry, defensive and disinterested in reason.
  At a rally in Austin, Texas, protesters were shouting, “ Fire Fauci !” The government’s top expert on infectious disease, Dr. Anthony Fauci, has rankled some because he delivers sound, science-based answers, not false hope or political spin.
  In Lansing, Michigan, protesters blocked streets that ambulances need to get to and  from a nearby hospital . In Kentucky, they  drowned out the governor  trying to hold a news briefing on the pandemic’s latest developments. And in multiple locations they’ve shown up brandishing firearms.  
  News reports suggest that many of the  protests aren't spontaneous  but have backing from groups, endowed  by a few wealthy individuals , that try to create popular uprisings around far-right principles, or at least make it look like these principles have more support than they do.
  Enough already. Enough of these people doing public harm while wrapping themselves in First Amendment (and Second Amendment) garb. Enough of right-wing billionaires trying to manipulate public opinion. And enough of politicians playing the role of puppets when they should be leading. As New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo put it Wednesday, "This is  no time to act stupidly . Period."
  If you can't see this reader poll, please refresh your page. 
  More: Share your coronavirus story 
 