Our live coverage of the coronavirus outbreak has  moved here. 
  A Fort Carson soldier has tested positive for coronavirus, according to a statement from the base.
  The Colorado National Guard soldier was being housed at the Colorado National Guard’s 168th Regional Training Institute at Fort Carson.
  The soldier will remain in isolation, is in good spirits and doesn’t require hospitalization at this time, the release sad.
  More than 360 people have tested positive for coronavirus in Colorado, including four who have died.
  
  A Transportation Security Administration officer working at Dulles International Airport in Virginia has tested positive for the coronavirus.
  The individual has been quarantined and is resting at home, the TSA said in a statement.
  Here's what else the statement said:
  
  
  California Governor Gavin Newsom is telling young people at beaches that the outbreak is not the time to party -- it's time to stay home. 
  “Don’t be selfish,” Newsom said, adding that for young people “thinking this is a party, (it's) time to grow up,” 
  He encouraged everyone to stay at home to combat the coronavirus outbreak, saying that it was best to assume you are contagious and distance yourself from others. 
  Testing issues:  The Governor said the big issue around testing is about swabs and gathering evidence. There was a need for targeting testing, he said.
  He said he was encouraged by the spirit of collaboration and offers of help from Tim Cook and Elon Musk. 
  Housing issues:  Housing the homeless in hotel rooms and trailers is a priority, he said. His office has identified 1,000 additional nursing facility beds that could be readied for the senior community. 
  
  
  Anyone arriving in the state of Hawaii -- including returning residents -- will be subject to a 14-day quarantine.
  The mandate, which is the first of its kind in the United States, will go into effect Thursday at 12:01 a.m. and remain in place until further notice, the state's governor David Ige said.
  Ige said that while the economy will suffer from this move, it was necessary. Violators could be subject to a $5,000 fine and a year imprisonment.
  
  
  Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte announced that all "non-essential factories" must close as Italy faces "the most severe crisis since WWII."
  That restriction applies to any factories not involved in producing food or medical equipment.
  Speaking via Facebook live Saturday, Conte announced that the more severe measures were necessary due to the increasing number of coronavirus deaths.
  Italy has recorded 53,578 cases and 4,825 deaths.
  All pharmacies, food stores, financial services and public transportation will continue to remain open in Italy, Conte said.
  
  
  There are now at least 23,649 cases of coronavirus in the United States and 302 people have died from the virus, according to a CNN tally.
  This includes cases in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and other US territories, as well as repatriated cases.
  Here are the worst affected states:
  
  Eritrea's Ministry of Information has reported the east African country's first case of coronavirus.
  A 39-year-old Eritrean man tested positive for coronavirus, the ministry said.
  The man has permanent residence in Norway and flew back to Eritrea Saturday morning local time via airline FlyDubai.
  The man was exhibiting symptoms during the screening at Asmara International Airport. He was immediately quarantined and tested. 
  
  The United State's emergency stimulus package will help the workers hardest hit by the  coronavirus outbreak, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said.
  Schumer told CNN’s Wolf Blizter on The Situation Room on Saturday night that a tentpole of the stimulus package was putting “workers first” by giving them “unemployment insurance on steroids.” 
  Under this scheme, Schumer noted that workers would be “furloughed by their employer so that you can go back to work.” 
  About  75 million residents of  Connecticut, Illinois, New York and California have been ordered to remain at home to slow the spread of  coronavirus . 
 