Our live coverage of the coronavirus pandemic in the US has ended for the day. Follow developments  from around the globe here. 
  
  
  Los Angeles is set to reopen beaches on Wednesday, according to a tweet from the county.
  New rules will be in place, very similar to those implemented in other parts of Southern California.
  Physical activity like running, swimming and surfing will be allowed, but sedentary activity like sunbathing and picnicking will be prohibited. Masks or face coverings must be worn unless you’re in the water.
  In an effort to keep people from congregating, parking lots, piers, concessions and boardwalks will remain closed.
  Read the tweet: 
  
  
  The coronavirus pandemic, directly or indirectly, may have killed far more people in New York City than the official Covid-19 death toll shows, according to a report released Monday by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
  The report looked at excess mortality in the city and found that 24,172 more people died since mid-March compared to what would normally be expected.
  About 19,000 of these were either confirmed or probable coronavirus deaths. But more than 5,000 of the city’s excess deaths had no explicit connection to Covid-19, the team, led by Donald Olson of the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, reported. 
  It’s difficult to know why exactly those deaths occurred. But Olson’s team noted that people with underlying conditions, such as heart disease and diabetes, are more likely to die from coronavirus infections and such deaths may not have been directly attributed to Covid-19. 
  The findings add to a growing body of evidence showing how the coronavirus pandemic may be killing people without ever infecting them. For example, experts have said that a decline in reported heart attacks and strokes in the US is likely the result of people avoiding emergency rooms.
  “Tracking excess mortality is important to understanding the contribution to the death rate from both COVID-19 disease and the lack of availability of care for non-COVID conditions,” the researchers, from the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene and the CDC, wrote in their report.
   
  
  Multiple outlets, including the New York Times and ESPN, are reporting that Major League Baseball owners have agreed on a proposal to begin the 2020 season in early July with games being hosted in spectator-free home stadiums. 
  Reports of the proposal follow a Monday meeting between MLB executives and team leadership. The New York Times cited unnamed baseball officials while ESPN cited sources familiar with the situation.
  According to the reports, the owners and league management have agreed upon an 82-game regular season, down from the traditional 162 games. Other details being reported are a second spring training starting next month, teams hosting games in their home stadiums as long as state legislation and health officials allow, use of the designated hitter in both the American and National Leagues, and expanded rosters which could utilize up to 50 players. 
  All of these proposed ideas would need to be agreed upon by the Major League Baseball Players Association in order to proceed with this unprecedented season. That could prove to be difficult as lines are already being drawn regarding key financial terms previously outlined in a March agreement on how much players would be paid in a shortened season. 
  Under the terms of the March agreement, MLB players received a $170 million salary advance. In exchange for that advance, the MLBPA agreed not to challenge the loss of the players’ 2020 salaries if the season were to be canceled and to accept prorated salaries if a partial season is played.
  An excerpt of that March agreement, provided to CNN by a source with knowledge of MLB operations, indicates that if MLB games cannot be staged in teams' home stadiums in front of spectators, the MLB and MLBPA agree to hold good faith discussions about the economic feasibility of playing games in the absence of spectators or at neutral sites. MLB's position is that those discussions could include asking players to take further salary reductions.
  The MLBPA is balking at the idea of reopening the discussion of players' salaries.
  The potential financial snag could create a public relations nightmare for the sport at the worst possible time. As unemployment hits depression era levels, and the world economy struggles to reopen, this is not the kind of game that the fans want to see being played.
  A separate source with knowledge of the MLBPA's position tells CNN that MLB owners are in no need of a financial bailout from MLB players. The source echoes Clark's position that the salary issue was previously settled in the March agreement, which provided the owners with flexibility to adjust their revenue sharing this season.
  Multiple outlets are reporting that MLB commissioner Rob Manfred will present the proposal to the MLBPA this week, potentially as early as Tuesday.
  CNN has reached out to MLB multiple times without a reply.
  
  South Carolina Gov. Henry McMaster announced today that close contact service providers, fitness and exercise centers, commercial gyms, and public or commercial pools will be able to open in a limited capacity on May 18.
  The governor said Monday that he also wants some state employees to return to work.
  He added the first group will return no later than June 1 and when there is enough personal protective equipment to go around on site. 
  Restaurants are now open for limited dine-in services, he said in a statement on Monday.
  The governor has also lifted restrictions on boating, short-term rentals, beaches, and visitors to the state.
  There are at least 7,792 positive cases of coronavirus and 346 Covid-19-related deaths in South Carolina, according to the state's Department of Health and Environmental Control's website.
  
  
  Even though the city’s Covid-19-related deaths are trending down, Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan said they will focus their efforts to stop the spread on people over the age of 60.
  The Detroit Health Department is planning on sending teams into apartment buildings and facilities, "where people over the age of 60 are clustered” to test for the virus, the mayor said
  Duggan said that in many instances, “it’s so much easier to go through the apartment building and take everybody’s swab and send them to a lab than to get all those folks to get into the car” and get tested. 
  Detroit’s Chief Public Health Officer, Denise Fair, added that “this is going to be a massive undertaking. We have about 10,000 units in the city of Detroit.”
  Here are some of the top coronavirus headlines from this afternoon you may have missed:
  Just moments after President Trump declared that his administration has "prevailed" on coronavirus testing, Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey rejected the President's claim, saying "we have not prevailed" on testing. 
  At the White House briefing on Covid-19 testing, Trump announced that his administration will allocate $11 billion from the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act to help states increase their testing ability. 
  The Minneapolis mayor said that testing will be "critical" to reopening his city safely. 
  "It's got to be testing, followed by tracing, followed by isolating for those who have come back with positive tests," Frey said. "We hope to get up to 20,000 tests per day. Right now, we are hovering around 5,000. In order to do this properly, in order to do this with our eyes wide open and responding to the data, we're going to need more tests."
  
  Watch: 
  
  The Vermont Department of Health is investigating a report of possible Covid-19 exposure at the Vermont School for Girls in Bennington, a residential treatment center for girls with special needs, Health Commissioner Dr. Mark Levine said this morning.
  Public Health Communication Officer Ben Truman said this doesn’t necessarily mean a widespread “outbreak” is occurring at the facility.
  According to Levine, everyone at the school, including all students and staff, has been tested for Covid-19, as it is Vermont’s practice to conduct universal testing in any congregate facility, no matter how large, if a positive case is reported. 
  “Working with the facility, our Epidemiology team conducted an investigation and recommended universal testing of staff and students. At each step, the school provided support and information for their students and staff, allowing our trained staff to conduct the specimen collection effort quickly, and for all concerned to receive appropriate guidance,” Truman said. 
  Levine said a small number of people at the school tested positive for the virus, but in order to protect individual private health information, the Vermont Department of Health will not be releasing test figures.
 