WASHINGTON – Even as health experts say more testing for the coronavirus is needed for states to safely begin lifting the restrictions put in place to slow the outbreak, President Donald Trump has repeatedly claimed the U.S. not only has sufficient testing capacity, but is outpacing the world in the effort. 
  "In the span of just a few short months, we've developed a testing capacity unmatched and unrivaled anywhere in the world, and it's not even close," Trump told reporters at a White House news briefing Monday. "This is a core element of our plan to safely and gradually reopen America." 
  Since the outbreak began, the president has tried to paint as positive a picture as possible of the pandemic and his administration's response. Trump has said he was trying to give the public reasons for hope and optimism, but critics have accused him of dangerously downplaying the threat because he was more concerned about the economic impact than the danger to public health. 
  Despite Trump's efforts to instill optimism, a majority of Americans believe "the worst is yet to come," according to a  CNN poll released Tuesday . And only 36% of Americans say they trust the information coming from the president on the coronavirus, compared with 74% who say they trust the CDC and 55% who say they trust CNN. 
  A closer look at the numbers regarding the president's recent claims reveals the public has reason to be wary of his declarations.
  During a March 6 visit to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, when the outbreak was just beginning in the U.S., the president said, "Anybody that wants a test can get a test."
  After Trump repeated that claim at Monday's briefing, Adm. Brett Giroir, the assistant secretary for health at the Department of Health and Human Services, made a slight tweak to the president's wording. 
  "Everybody who needs a test can get a test," he said. 
  "Right now in America, anybody who needs a test can get a test in America with the numbers we have," he said. "If you are symptomatic with a respiratory illness, that is an indication for a test and you can get a test. If you need to be contact traced, you can get a test." 
  Want to talk more about politics?: Join our Facebook group: ‘Across the Aisle, Across the Nation.’ 
  Trump agreed that only those with "sniffles" or a sore throat should be tested. 
  "If people want to get tested, they get tested. But for the most part, they shouldn’t want to get tested," Trump said. 
  But studies have shown that many infected people never present symptoms, and public health experts have called for enough testing to reveal the asymptomatic carriers of the disease. 
  Matthew Heinz, who helped coordinate the federal response with health care workers during the Ebola crisis under the Obama administration, said the reality is testing is not as widely available to the public as the president contends.
  "That's just not possible. I certainly wish it was. I wish that every single health care worker, nurse, respiratory therapist, physican, pharmacist and everyone who is cleaning the hospitals and keeping us safe was able to be tested every week," said Heinz, an internist and hospitalist at Tucson Medical Center in Tucson, Arizona. 
  Trump said 300,000 tests are now being conducted in the U.S. every day. But last week, a  report from the Harvard Global Health Institute  found that the U.S. should be doing 900,000 tests a day by May 15 to safely reopen. 
  "The reason we had to shut down in the first place was we didn’t have enough testing. The reason that we have stayed shut down is that we didn’t have enough testing," said Tom Tsai, an assistant professor at the Harvard Global Health Institute’s department of health policy and management. "And we want to make sure that when we do open that we can stay open, and the way to ensure that is to make sure we have enough testing."
  According to their model, more than 40 states have not reached the level of testing needed, including four – Colorado, Florida, Georgia and Texas – that have already reopened. 
  'Ask China': Trump abruptly ends news conference after reporter question on coronavirus testing 
  "We're testing more people per capita than South Korea, the United Kingdom, France, Japan, Sweden, Finland and many other countries," Trump said Monday. 
  He is correct,  according to Our World in Data . The U.S. trailed all those countries except Japan and the U.K. in per capita testing through March. It took the U.S. until mid-April to pass South Korea, which confirmed its first COVID-19 case on the same day, and until April 25 to surpass Finland. 
  At a Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee hearing Tuesday, Sen. Mitt Romney, R-Utah, said surpassing South Korea was " nothing to celebrate " because that country has only lost 256 people to COVID-19, compared with the more than 80,000 deaths in the U.S. 
  Romney attributed South Korea's low death toll to aggressive early testing, with 140,000 tests done by March 6 when the U.S. had completed just 2,000. South Korea's success had decreased its need for testing. 
  The U.S. still trails many nations in per capita testing, including Australia, Italy, Russia, Canada, Denmark, Austria, Switzerland, Belgium and Iceland. 
  Trump also said the U.S. has conducted more than 9 million tests, which he correctly says is the most completed by any nation. That represents a single test for less than 3% of the population. 
  On occasion, the president has said the U.S. has conducted  more tests than all other nations combined . That boast is demonstrably untrue and easily refuted by a glance at the data. The sum of the tests completed in the next three countries with the highest totals – Russian, Germany and Italy – easily surpasses the tests performed in the U.S. 
  "Coronavirus numbers are looking MUCH better, going down almost everywhere. Big progress being made!" Trump said in a tweet on Monday. 
  The number of new cases overall, as well as the daily deaths related to the virus, appear to be on the way down as the outbreak has passed the peak in the two worst hot spots: New York and New Jersey. 
  Overall, there are 16 states where the number of cases has started to decline, according to  data compiled by The New York Times . 
  But the number of daily cases has remained relatively stable in an additional 26 states. Eight other states are seeing the number of new cases rise, including the nation's most populous state, California. 
  Contributing: Courtney Subramanian  
 