Two tropical storms are expected to strike the Gulf Coast in rapid succession this week, compounding public health concerns in states fighting to keep new  coronavirus  cases down after a surge of infections earlier in the summer.
  The  most recent forecast  by the National Hurricane Center showed the storms, Marco and Laura, headed for coastal Louisiana and eastern Texas and expected to make landfall on Monday and Wednesday, respectively. Louisiana could face an unprecedented one-two punch, with both storms potentially hitting the state as hurricanes in a three-day span.
  Here are some significant developments:
  Louisiana officials urged residents to include masks, sanitizers and other protective gear in their emergency kits and to shelter only with immediate household members if possible.
  “It should not be lost on any Louisianian that in addition to twin tropical weather threats, we still have to deal with the covid-19 pandemic,” said Gov. John Bel Edwards (D), who requested a federal emergency declaration from the White House on Saturday. “Covid-19 does not become less of a threat because of tropical weather.”
  As Texas Gov. Greg Abbott (R) issued a state disaster declaration, he  told reporters  on Sunday that the Texas military division was preparing to operate mobile coronavirus testing squads, sheltering teams and disinfection teams.
  “As we are working to, perhaps, relocate temporarily some people that need to go to shelters, we must be very mindful of the need to protect against the spread of covid-19,” he said, referencing the disease caused by the novel coronavirus.
  California is facing a  similar crisis , with some of the largest wildfires in the state’s history raging around the Bay Area. Residents are packing into shelters, virus testing centers have been forced to close, and teams of prisoners who typically help fight the blazes are not available after the inmates were released because of the virus, which has infected more than 650,000 people in the state.
  States in the tropical storms’ paths experienced sharp spikes in coronavirus cases when a wave of infections swept over the South and the West. In Louisiana, infections peaked at more than 3,000 per day in late July and early August, straining the state’s hospital system and prompting Edwards to institute a statewide mask mandate.
  Louisiana has since reported progress against the virus, with seven-day averages for new daily cases falling by 29 percent over the past week, according to The Post’s data. But officials cautioned that the outbreak could reverse course if people abandon health measures as they bunker down for the storms.
  “We don’t want to lose what we’ve gained,” Jefferson Parish President Cynthia Lee Sheng said at a news conference Saturday, as reported by  the New Orleans Advocate .
  Cases also surged in Mississippi last month and are trending upward again after dipping in the first half of August, according to The Post’s tracking.
  Mississippi Gov. Tate Reeves (R) declared a state of emergency over the weekend and warned residents that shelter capacity would be limited because of the state’s outbreak. He urged people to seek out nonpublic spaces if they needed to evacuate.
  “What we can’t have happen is, if this thing is to strengthen on Sunday or Monday, to have a mad rush of people to our sheltering space,” Reeves said.
  In other parts of the country, officials stepped up warnings about possible “superspreader” events that create ideal conditions for virus transmission.
  Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti (D) told CBS News’s “Face the Nation” on Sunday that he recently shut off power at a Hollywood home after the residents hosted large parties.
  “Where people don’t listen, we’re going to shut them down,” Garcetti said. “We’re just not playing here. We are not going to let people take our lives into their hands, so we shut it down.”
  In Maine, the Aug. 7 wedding reception in Millinocket is a growing concern for health officials, who said this weekend that they have identified secondary and tertiary infections connected with it, showing the virus had rippled into the surrounding community. Those infected ranged in age from 4 to 98, officials said.
  The Millinocket Regional Hospital confirmed in a  statement  Friday that a woman linked to the reception had died of the virus. About 65 people attended the event,  the Bangor Daily News reported .
  Large gatherings are a problem for colleges and universities, too, with school officials struggling to rein in their students as they return to campus for the new academic year. Some institutions, including  the University of Notre Dame  in Indiana and  Towson University  in Maryland, have suspended in-person classes following campus outbreaks. Images of students packed into bars and common areas have resulted in harsh warnings and  discipline  from administrators.
  At the College of the Holy Cross in Massachusetts, administrators  told students  that an off-campus party had been linked to a confirmed coronavirus case and several potential infections before the semester had even started. In  a message  titled “Last Night’s Selfish and Reckless Behavior,” Syracuse University leaders admonished first-year students who gathered on a quad in violation of guidelines. University of Alabama President Stuart Bell  told the campus community  that the university was experiencing an “unacceptable rise” in cases.
  Robert Robbins, president of the University of Arizona, said more than 5,000 students living in the university’s dorms have been tested for the virus. But he cautioned that the more than 20,000 other students living off campus will be harder to control once the university begins in-person and online classes Monday.
  “I think the big issue is off-campus activity,” Robbins told “Face the Nation” on Sunday. He said students could be expelled for violating the university’s pandemic policies, including mandatory mask-wearing, and said the campus could shut down again if cases spike and area hospitals become overwhelmed.
  “If we can’t handle it and people are getting really ill,” Robbins said, “then we’ll pull the plug.”
  Matthew Cappucci, Jason Samenow, Abigail Hauslohner and Felicia Sonmez contributed to this report.  
 