The world passed another ominous milestone Saturday as global reported coronavirus deaths surpassed 200,000. In the United States, some Georgia mayors are fighting back against newly relaxed restrictions and states across the nation are  announcing phased plans to reopen their economies  battered by efforts to contain the spread of the virus.
  This as another Navy ship has reported an outbreak of coronavirus: the USS Kidd off the Pacific side of Central America. Officials said at least 33 members of the destroyer's crew have tested positive and expect the number to grow.
  As  antibody testing ramps up across the U.S. , New York announced Saturday that health care workers and transit and law enforcement officials will begin receiving tests this week. However, the World Health Organization issued a warning Friday, saying "there is currently no evidence that people who have recovered from COVID-19 and have antibodies are protected from a second infection."
  The virus has killed more than 202,000 people globally,  according to Johns Hopkins University data . More than 2.8 million confirmed cases have been reported, including more than 936,000 in the U.S., with more than 53,000 deaths.
  Our live blog is being updated throughout the day. Refresh for the latest news, and get  updates in your inbox with The Daily Briefing .  More headlines : 
  Savannah, Georgia, Mayor Van Johnson is taking steps to keep local churches closed and Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms is urging residents to stay home, even as  the state dramatically rolls back its social distancing restrictions .
  Johnson asked over 70 local Savannah religious leaders  to keep their worship centers closed. None of the leaders said they would reopen. Johnson told the religious leaders he understood the financial burden of the religious institutions being closed but said, "We can reach God without going through a building.”
  Meanwhile, Bottoms has repeatedly urged residents to stay home. On Friday, she  tweeted  coronavirus fatality statistics for the state: "The numbers speak for themselves. PLEASE STAY HOME."
  Earlier this week, Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp announced he would reopen barbershops, hair salons, gyms, tattoo shops and nail salons beginning Friday, April 24. Included in the order are religious institutions that can hold services “in accordance with strict social distancing protocols,” according to the governor’s office.
  – Asha Gilbert and Joel Shannon 
  A  number of sailors aboard the USS Kidd , a Navy destroyer off the Pacific coast of Central America, have tested positive for the coronavirus, and the ship was preparing to return to port, the Pentagon said Friday.
  "Using lessons learned from other cases," the Navy sent an eight-person medical team aboard the ship after a sailor who was showing symptoms was flown to a medical facility in San Antonio, Texas, and tested positive for the virus, the Pentagon’s chief spokesman, Jonathan Hoffman, said.
  The outbreak comes after  hundreds of cases were reported aboard the USS Theodore Roosevelt , an aircraft carrier that is docked in Guam. The ship's captain was fired for sending a fraught email to commanders pleading for faster action to protect his crew from a coronavirus outbreak, but a  top Navy officer later recommended his reinstatement .
  – Grace Hauck 
  Protests were held in states including California, Kentucky and Rhode Island on Saturday as some Americans expressed frustration with states' restrictive social distancing orders.
  In Rhode Island, a protest drew as many as 100 people to the State House with signs telling Gov. Gina Raimondo to “Knock It Off, Gina’” and “Re-open the Rhode Island Economy.” At her daily briefing on the pandemic, she said: “I certainly respect their opinion and their ability to protest. ... [But] if they are violating social-distancing rules, then they should knock it off.”
  In Southern California, a group of 75 to 100 protesters gathered and three people were arrested, according to a release from the San Diego County Sheriff’s Department.  The group was protesting beach closures , even as the county made moves to begin reopening beaches.
  A few dozen Kentucky protesters gathered at the state’s Capitol building Saturday afternoon to object to Gov. Andy Beshear's COVID-19 restrictions and put pressure on Kentucky Attorney General Daniel Cameron to rein in what they say is Beshear's grasp on the state.
  Saturday’s protests follow a large gathering in Wisconsin on Friday, where more than a thousand people cheering "USA" and "open up" protested Gov. Tony Evers' restrictions on the steps of the state Capitol.
  In rural communities across America,  more than 800 hospitals already faced financial peril  before the pandemic took hold. Now, they must find a way to treat the thousands of coronavirus patients in their communities, which could trigger a financial cascade that sinks up to a hundred hospitals within the next year.
  A USA TODAY Network analysis of financial reports submitted to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services found that almost half of the counties with coronavirus cases are served by a hospital that reported a net loss in 2017. For 640 of these struggling medical centers, there is no other hospital in town.
  – Josh Salman and Jayme Fraser 
  From coast to coast, epidemiologists are using some of the  many antibody tests that have entered the market  recently to determine how much COVID-19 has spread.  The importance of these tests are not lost on Americans, who are itching to go back to work, see loved ones and find out if they have been infected with the virus.
  Many have questions about where to find antibody tests, how they work and if they can even be trusted. With little public data about the tests' accuracy, experts question whether the tests will give people false reassurances by indicating they have immunity to the disease.
  "There is currently no evidence that people who  have recovered from COVID-19 and have antibodies are protected from a second infection ," the World Health Organization said in a statement Friday. The tests also "need further validation to determine their accuracy and reliability," the statement said.
  – Adrianna Rodriguez and Grace Hauck 
  The NBA plans to reopen  team practicie facilities May 1 for individual workouts  for players in cities and states that have loosened stay-at-home orders during the novel coronavirus outbreak, a person with knowledge of the league's decision told USA TODAY Sports. The person was granted anonymity because the NBA has not announced the news.
  The facilities will only be open for individual workouts — not any group workouts or organized team practices — the person stressed. Texas and Georgia have reopened businesses this weekend, while emphasizing social-distancing practices. But the majority of states have still maintained stay-at-home practices because of the ongoing lack of testing and a vaccine for COVID-19.
  -- Mark Medina 
  Since the first coronavirus case was diagnosed in the United States more than three months ago, President Donald Trump  has repeatedly made assertions about the illness and floated treatments  that medical experts in his own administration have had to walk back.
  From saying in February that the virus would "miraculously" disappear, to  touting an untested anti-malaria drug  at his daily press conferences, Trump has often ventured far afield of science to put a positive light on the pandemic.
  The latest example of that came Thursday, when Trump suggested that scientists look into whether ultraviolet light or disinfectants could play some role in treating patients with the disease. His remarks prompted a rebuke from doctors and urgent warnings from state health agencies against self-treatment. 
  – Nicholas Wu and John Fritze 
  The number of coronavirus cases in Milwaukee linked to Wisconsin's controversial April 7 election  appears to be more than five times greater  than originally thought.
  In a Friday media briefing, Milwaukee health commissioner Jeanette Kowalik noted that she originally reported there were seven suspected coronavirus cases found in people who voted on election day or worked at the polls. "Now there's 40 people that showed up," she said. "We're analyzing more to show the connections between the people." 
  Gov. Tony Evers  attempted to  delay the election  out of fears that masses of people at polling places would result in more people contracting COVID-19. The governor's eleventh-hour bid was blocked by the Republican-dominated state Legislature and Supreme Court.
  – Milwaukee Journal Sentinel 
  Thousands of  employees of the U.S. Postal Service are making it possible for Americans to limit their movement . "It makes me feel good that they can stay in, especially if they are older or have health issues, and I can be out here to help them," said Colorado postal carrier Amy Bezerra, 51.
  The Postal Service, Amazon, FedEx and UPS report they're delivering more packages.  A USPS spokesman said carriers could even tell when stimulus checks began to hit bank accounts because deliveries began increasing within days.
  But USPS said the amount of first-class mail – letters – has dropped so dramatically that even with the rise in parcel deliveries, overall volume is down about 25%. The drop in revenue is so severe that earlier this month the Postal Service received permission to borrow up to $10 billion to weather the coronavirus outbreak. That may be just a stopgap measure for the service, which has run a deficit for years.
  – Trevor Hughes 
  As coronavirus cases mounted at meatpacking plants this month, the federal government  granted 15 poultry processors waivers to cut chickens faster , usually by crowding more workers onto their production lines. 
  Overall, poultry plants with such waivers are at least 10 times more likely than the meatpacking industry as a whole to have coronavirus cases among workers, USA TODAY and the Midwest Center for Investigative Reporting found.
  The U.S. Department of Agriculture granted more of those waivers in one week in April than it had in any previous month over the past eight years of the program’s existence. 
  Three of the 15 poultry plants granted new waivers in April have reported outbreaks of COVID-19, the media outlets found. Another three plants that already had waivers also have outbreaks. Some 53 poultry plants nationwide have the waivers.
  As of Friday morning, 66 of the nation’s more than 6,400 meatpacking plants have had documented coronavirus outbreaks affecting more than 3,700 workers, according to USA TODAY and Midwest Center tracking. About 400 of the plants are large-scale.
  – Sky Chadde and Kyle Bagenstose  
  In a series of breathtaking multibillion-dollar bets,  possible vaccine candidates to fight the new coronavirus  are being prepared for production across the globe in one of the most dramatic examples of short cuts and streamlining aimed at meeting what many experts consider unrealistic U.S. target dates for a vaccine.
  Dr. Anthony Fauci has repeatedly said a vaccine may be ready in 12 to 18 months, but that timeline would shatter all precedents for developing a new vaccine, which typically takes many years. 
  Manufacturing tens of millions of unproven vaccine doses on spec is unheard of, there is no certainty any will work, and if one does prove effective, getting it into the arms of people will require the Food and Drug Administration to speed up its approval process.
  – Elizabeth Weise, David Heath and Joey Garrison 
 