As the number of confirmed coronavirus cases in the United States neared 1 million Monday,  New York canceled its presidential primary  scheduled for June.
  The decision comes as New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said he would extend stay-at-home restrictions in some parts of the state but consider lifting them in others that have mitigated the outbreak. Cuomo is one of a large group of governors contemplating what actions to take to restart their economies while keeping residents safe.
  New York Sen. Chuck Schumer also moved to put forward a bill that  would prevent President Donald Trump’s signature  from appearing on future stimulus checks sent out to millions of Americans.
  The virus has killed more than 210,000 people globally, according to  Johns Hopkins University data . Three million-plus confirmed cases have been reported, including upwards of 988,000 in the U.S. More than 56,000 have died in the U.S. from the virus, a number approaching the  58,220 Americans killed in the Vietnam War  from 1955 to 1975.
  Our live blog is being updated throughout the day. Refresh for the latest news, and get  updates in your inbox with  The Daily Briefing . More headlines: 
  President Donald Trump said he takes no responsibility for a spike in  cases of people misusing disinfectants  after he wondered aloud last week about possibly  injecting them as a treatment for coronavirus .
  When asked Monday about the increase of people in some states ingesting disinfectants Trump answered: "I can't imagine why." When pressed about whether he takes any responsibility, Trump said, "No, I don't."
  Maryland was one state that issued a warning against dangerous disinfectant use, with the Maryland Emergency Management Agency tweeting the agency had received "several calls." New York City said its poison control center received a higher-than-usual number calls "specifically about exposure to Lysol, 10 cases specifically about bleach and 11 cases about exposures to other household cleaners." 
  – Savannah Behrmann 
  States big and small are evaluating when they can restart their economies after weeks in lockdown necessitated by the coronavirus, and they're taking different approaches.
  In Texas, Gov. Greg Abbott said Monday he will let his stay-at-home order expire Thursday as the state begins a phased reopening that will permit malls, restaurants and movie theaters to operate starting Friday, with occupancy limitations.
  In Ohio, Gov. Mike DeWine announced a partial reopening beginning Friday, with some openings delayed until May 12. Dental offices and veterinarian clinics are allowed to open Friday. General offices, distribution centers, manufacturers and construction companies can open a week May 4. Retail stores, consumer and service businesses will have to wait until May 12.
  However, New Jersey is not ready to take those steps. Gov. Phil Murphy said Monday. The state ranks second to New York for the most coronavirus cases and deaths in the country, and Murphy suggested a phased reopening may not take place until Memorial Day weekend. He did not commit to a timeline.
  New York has canceled its Democratic presidential primary  for 2020 as the state's Democratic election commissioners voted Monday to remove Sen. Bernie Sanders and nine other presidential candidates from the New York ballot.
  The election commissioners made use of a new measure in state law allowing them remove a candidate if his or her campaign was publicly suspended.
  Democratic commissioner Doug Kellner said it was "a very difficult decision," but holding the primary would have been "unnecessary and frivolous" in the age of the coronavirus outbreak. New York will still hold its congressional and state-level primaries on June 23 and voters have been encouraged to vote by absentee ballot. 
  – Jon Campbell 
  Certain CVS Pharmacy stores will begin offering coronavirus testing in their parking lots and drive-through pharmacy lanes. CVS Health announced Monday that starting in May, it will  "offer self-swab tests to individuals  meeting Centers for Disease Control and Prevention criteria."
  The move comes in addition to large-scale testing the company has been offering at some locations in five states since March. The new self-swab testing will take place at up to 1,000 CVS locations by the end of May, which equals more than 1 in 10 of the company's stores. Patients will schedule tests online.
  – Nathan Bomey 
  Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Monday he will extend New York's stay-at-home restrictions – which had been set to expire May 15 – in the most severely-impacted regions of the state but will consider lifting them in ones that have mitigated the outbreak.
  “You have to be smart about it,” Cuomo said. “Because if we are not smart, you will see that infection rate go right back to where it was.”
  Cuomo said New York would continue to follow CDC guidelines that encourage states to reopen when there has been a 14-day decline in cases, consider requiring social distancing and face masks to be worn, monitor the healthcare system for possible spikes and emphasize testing and tracing.
  Cuomo's response to the coronavirus pandemic  has gained him record approval ratings from New York voters, a poll Monday found. The Democratic governor's job performance rating in his 10th year in office hit a high of 71%, up eight percentage points from last month, the Siena College poll said.
  – Lorenzo Reyes and Joseph Spector 
  Stocks opened higher on Wall Street on Monday as governments around the world prepared to gradually lift stay-at-home restrictions.
  The S&P 500 was up 0.7% in early trading at the start of a week full of market-moving events. Several major central banks are meeting, including the Bank of Japan, which announced its latest stimulus measures to prop up markets.
  The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 0.4% and the Nasdaq was up 0.9%. by mid-morning.
  This will be one of the busiest weeks of the earnings season, with several high-profile companies – including Alphabet, Amazon and Apple – set to reveal how much they made during the first quarter amid the economic unrest created by the coronavirus. 
  Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer is not pleased  President Donald Trump's name will appear on stimulus checks being sent out to millions of Americans – and he is planning to put forward legislation to stop it from happening again. 
  The No Politics in Pandemic Recovery Act, or No PR Act, proposed by Schumer would prohibit the use of any taxpayer funds "for any publicity or promotional activity that includes the names, likeness, or signature" of Trump or Vice President Mike Pence. 
  The Treasury Department said there was "no delay whatsoever" in getting out the checks, which included up to $1,200 per American taxpayer. The statement came after The Washington Post cited IRS officials who believed adding the president's name was sure to slow down the process. 
  – William Cummings 
  U.S. Customs and Border Protection  is extending its closure of Global Entry enrollment centers  until at least June 1, according to an agency statement. Enrollment centers were originally closed in March because of the coronavirus pandemic.
  The program enables international travelers to re-enter the United States on an expedited basis. It costs $100 to join and meets the Real ID requirements for domestic air travel imposed by Congress after 9/11.
  – Curtis Tate 
  British Prime Minister  Boris Johnson returned to work  Monday, appearing in public for the first time in three weeks since recovering from a bout of COVID-19 that landed him in intensive care for three days.
  Standing outside his central London office and residence at No. 10 Downing Street, Britain's leader apologized for being "away from my desk for much longer than I would've liked" and said the country was on the brink of victory in the first phase of its fight with the coronavirus even if it was too early to end Britain's five-week national lockdown.
  Johnson, 55, is the first major world leader known to have contracted the virus – and now also to have beaten it. He was diagnosed with COVID-19 on March 26 and hospitalized 10 days later.
  – Kim Hjelmgaard 
  As the weather warmed in California over the weekend, people headed outside to enjoy the sun on beaches, golf courses and trails.
  Photos from Huntington Beach and Newport Beach, in Orange County, showed large crowds out on the beach on Saturday as Los Angeles County beaches remained closed. Many people appeared to keep their distance from others and some wore masks.
  In  Encinitas, in San Diego County, three people were arrested  Saturday while protesting closed beaches. San Diego County planned to reopen beaches Monday for limited activities like swimming, surfing, running and walking. Sitting and sunbathing are still not allowed.
  – Ryan Miller and Joel Shannon 
  As the coronavirus pandemic spreads at juvenile facilities,  attorneys and advocates are scrambling to get young detainees released , especially those serving time for nonviolent offenses and probation violations, or who have underlying health conditions.
  The U.S. juvenile system is dependent on judges’ discretion, so releasing someone is largely based on which judges are presiding in what jurisdiction – instead of the severity of offenses, attorneys and advocates say. The result is a patchwork of decisions, a slow slog to bring cases in front of judges when courts across the country are shut down.
  “It’s justice by geography. Depending on where you live, you may have greater or lesser access to the courts, or greater or lesser opportunity to have your case reviewed,” said Marsha Levick, chief legal officer of the Juvenile Law Center in Philadelphia.
  Across the country, 116 youths at juvenile facilities have tested positive for coronavirus, according to the Sentencing Project, which has been tracking cases nationwide.
  – Kristine Phillips  
  Several countries are starting to loosen up restrictions imposed to combat the coronavirus.
  In New Zealand, construction is among the enterprises allowed to reopen, and residents could buy takeout restaurant food Monday. Australia is set to resume non-urgent surgeries this week.
  Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez plans to announce a "de-escalation" of the country's lockdown Tuesday, along with France and Greece.
  In Italy, where nearly 27,000 people have died from the virus, Premier Giuseppe Conte has detailed his plan for a gradual reopening. Some businesses like factories and construction sites could reopen once they implement safety measures. Next week, parks can reopen, people can travel within their region to visit family and funerals can be held.
  A joint flyover  by the U.S. Air Force Air Demonstration Squadron, the Thunderbirds, and the U.S. Navy Flight Demonstration Squadron, the Blue Angels, is planned for Tuesday in the New York area to honor front line and essential workers.
  The team will fly over New York and Newark, New Jersey, around noon, then head to Trenton, New Jersey, and onto Philadelphia, according to a  news release  on the Navy's website.
  "We hope to give Americans a touching display of American resolve that honors those serving on the frontline of our fight with COVID-19,"  said  U.S. Air Force Lt. Col. John Caldwell.
  – Savannah Behrmann and John Fritze 
  Contributing: The Associated Press 
 