The world soared past the  1 million mark in confirmed coronavirus cases ,  jobless numbers skyrocketed , Democrats  delayed their national convention  and the nation's preeminent infectious disease expert  required a security detail  on Thursday.
  More bad news landed early Friday: The U.S. death toll topped 6,000 President Donald Trump and federal health officials predicted a “very painful” period in the country's fight against the public health emergency.
  Of the globe's 1 million-plus cases, nearly a quarter of them — more than 245,000 — are in the U.S.
  Jobless numbers released Thursday were stunning. New unemployment claims doubled to 6.6 million from last week's record-setting 3.3 million.
  FEMA  asked the Pentagon for 100,000 body bags . The FBI seized, bought and distributed to healthcare workers "hoarded" masks, gowns and other equipment. The president  fired social media shots  at "complainer" governors.
  The U.S. death toll was at 6,057 early Friday, according to the  Johns Hopkins University data dashboard.  Worldwide, the death toll approached 53,000 and the virus has infected more than 1,016,000.
  Our live blog is being updated throughout the day. Get updates in your inbox with  The Daily Briefing . Refresh for the latest news.  
  More headlines: 
  President Donald Trump confirmed Thursday that his administration is close to providing recommendations on whether or not Americans should don face masks to ward off the coronavirus, but said that whatever guidance is offered wouldn’t be mandatory.
  “I think they’re going to be coming out with regulations on that. If people want to abide them frankly — I don’t think they’ll be mandatory because some people don’t want to do that,” Trump said during a lengthy White House news conference. “If people wanted to wear them, they can. If people wanted to use scarves they can.”
  Since the beginning of the outbreak, the U.S. government has said masks are not needed for the general public – and they have encouraged businesses with large stockpiles of masks to donate them to hospitals and other medical facilities. But administration officials have signaled in recent days they are reconsidering.
  Deborah Birx, the White House coronavirus response coordinator, expressed concerned about issuing a mask edict, saying the government doesn't want to give people the idea that masks are a "substitute" for the social distancing guidelines.
  "The most important thing is the social distancing and washing your hands," she said. "And we don’t want people to get an artificial sense of protection because they’re behind a mask."
  New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio  on Thursday afternoon  said he is now recommending New Yorkers wear a “face covering” when outside or around others. 
  “It can be a scarf, a bandana or one you make at home,” he tweeted. “But PLEASE: save medical masks for our health care workers & first responders who truly need them.”
  – John Fritze, David Jackson and Nicholas Wu 
  Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said many Americans reeling from the financial impacts caused by the coronavirus outbreak can expect to see their one-time stimulus payments of up to $1,200 show up in their bank accounts in about two weeks. For those without direct deposit, Mnuchin promised checks would go out quickly as well.
  The announcement followed a memo sent out by House Democrats that warned some Americans could have to wait up to 20 weeks before they receive their checks. 
  When asked Thursday about the memo, which was sent out by the House Ways and Means Committee, Mnuchin said it wouldn't take that long.
  "Quickly, as a matter of weeks and not months," Mnuchin said of the money going out. 
  – Christal Hayes 
  The world  marked a grim milestone  on Thursday, registering more than 1 million confirmed cases of the coronavirus that has swept the globe in less than five months.
  But, in reality, that mark — 1,015,709 at 11:45 p.m. EDT — was crossed much earlier.
  That's because the number of official cases are only those identified through testing. Cases not tested would include asymptomatic individuals, people who may have died of complications of the virus without anyone knowing it, and those whose symptoms were not serious enough to qualify for testing. 
  "The million (cases) is clearly way under what the actual number will be,'' said Dr. Steven Corwin, president and CEO of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital.
  He said the U.S. figures are especially underreported "because of the lag that we had getting testing underway and the ability to only test the sickest of patients to begin with.''
  – Doug Stanglin 
  Uncertain when hotel-casinos will reopen after government-ordered shutdowns to stem the spread of COVID-19, Caesars Entertainment is now using the minimum workforce needed to run basic operations at properties.
  That means 90 percent of the resort empire's 64,000 employees will be out of work, the company said Thursday.
  These cuts are critical to the company's future, said Caesars Entertainment CEO Tony Rodio in a statement.
  Caesars is paying furloughed employees for the first two weeks of the closure period. Those employees can use available paid time off after that. 
  For furloughed employees enrolled in Caesars health plans, the company is paying 100 percent of health insurance premiums through June 30 or their return to work – whichever comes sooner.
  – Ed Komenda, Reno Gazette Journal 
  The number of Americans who filed claims for unemployment benefits surged to a record 3.3 million last week, and that figure doubled this week when the Labor Department reported 6.6 million claims as the coronavirus pandemic continued to spark massive layoffs and furloughs across the nation. U.S. stocks, hammered by steep declines Wednesday, were modestly higher in early trading Thursday. 
  “Sadly, we’re only at the start of this process,” said James McCann, senior global economist at Aberdeen Standard Investments. "When we look at all the jobs at direct risk from social distancing policies, and those which could be affected indirectly, the numbers start to get pretty scary."
  – Jessica Menton 
  One of the reasons the U.S. is facing such a shortage of ventilators, masks and other personal protective equipment in the midst of the coronavirus crisis is American companies sold nearly $60 million worth of those products to China -- even as the pandemic's threat loomed at home.
  A USA TODAY analysis  found sales of those medical supplies, now desperately coveted by states trying to fight off the virus or anticipating a crush of cases, took off in the first two months of the year as China was confronting its outbreak.
  The White House and congressional intelligence committees were briefed on the scope and threat of the coronavirus in January and February, but President Donald Trump has not stopped exports of key medical equipment – a move taken by at least 54 other countries so far. 
  – Dian Zhang, Erin Mansfield and Dinah Voyles Pulver 
  President Donald Trump has tested negative for the coronavirus for the second time. Speaking Thursday at the daily White House briefing, Trump said he took the test earlier in the day and the results came back within 15 minutes.
  A previous, more-invasive test was administered three weeks ago after a Brazilian official was found to be positive after coming into contact with Trump in Florida. Trump said this test was done “out of curiosity” and he went back to work after being administered the point-of-care test that uses molecular technology.
  “I’ve done them both and the second one is a lot more pleasant, I can tell you that,” he said.
  – Erick Smith 
  With its theme parks and retail stores closed,  Walt Disney Co.  is furloughing employees starting April 19, with top executives also taking pay cuts, the company said Thursday. Furloughed workers will receive full healthcare benefits paid for by the company during the shut-down, Disney said.
  Furloughed workers have been receiving full pay and benefits since government-mandated closures of its parks in Florida and California, and workers will be allowed to use PTO while furloughed. The Disney Parks, Experiences and Products segment has around 177,000 cast members, which includes staff that work in its theme parks and at retail locations like the Disney Store, which also are closed across the nation.
  Disney said furloughed workers, like other Americans, are eligible to receive $600 per week as part of the $2.2 trillion economic stimulus bill and broadened state unemployment insurance system.
  The 2020 Democratic National Convention has been  pushed back to mid-August  as organizers try to navigate the fallout from the coronavirus pandemic. The event, originally scheduled for July 13-17 in Milwaukee, will instead be held the week of Aug. 17. It's unclear how many days the convention will last as planning remains in flux.
  After "giving thought to how it is this event can have the greatest impact in the electoral process and the greatest impact in terms of what we can bring to Milwaukee, we felt the best decision, not knowing all the answers, was to delay this," Democratic National Convention CEO Joe Solmonese said. The GOP convention is set for Aug. 24-27 in Charlotte, North Carolina.
  – Bill Glauber, Milwaukee Journal Sentinel 
  Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, has been the target of online threats and has been  issued an armed security detail , multiple media sources reported Thursday.
  Fauci, 79, declined to discuss his security at a recent news conference of the White House coronavirus task force. Details were vague, but the New York Times reported that Fauci was targeted by "conspiracy theorists."
  CNN, citing law enforcement officials, said the Department of Health and Human Services Inspector General sought assistance from the U.S. Marshals Service, which then deputized HHS officers to act as personal security.
  A Pentecostal church in Sacramento, California, has had an outbreak of more than 70 confirmed cases of coronavirus,  the San Francisco Chronicle reported .
  The newspaper said public health officials suspect members of the Bethany Slavic Missionary Church have continued to meet in private homes, in defiance of county and state orders aimed at curbing spread of the virus.
  "It's outrageous that this is happening," Sacramento County Public Health Director Peter Beilenson told the Chronicle. "Obviously there is freedom of religion, but when it's impacting public health as this is, we have to enforce social distancing."
  President Donald Trump insisted Thursday his team is delivering medical supplies to states nationwide and that  some governors are "complainers"  who will never be pleased. "Some have insatiable appetites & are never satisfied (politics?)" Trump tweeted. "Remember, we are a backup for them."
  Trump did not specify which critics he was referring to, but a group of Democratic governors – including Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan, Andrew Cuomo of New York, J.B. Pritzker of Illinois and Jay Inslee of Washington – have criticized the slow pace of federal assistance.
  – David Jackson 
  The Navy on Thursday  fired the captain of the USS Theodore Roosevelt , four days after he pleaded for help as the coronavirus ravaged his crew, the Navy announced.
  Acting Navy Secretary Thomas Modly announced that Navy Capt. Brett Crozier was relieved for loss of confidence. "I did not come to this decision lightly," Modly said.
  Crozier had sent an urgent letter to the U.S. Navy on Sunday, seeking to evacuate and isolate the crew as cases of coronavirus infection increased on the vessel. "Decisive action" was required to prevent deaths from the coronavirus, Crozier wrote. The ship's close quarters prevented sailors from following guidelines to keep them safe.
  The letter's publication by the San Francisco Chronicle caught the Navy by surprise, and officials scrambled to show they were responding to concerns about sailors' health. Modlly said the Navy had been speeding help to the Roosevelt before Crozier sent his letter. As of late Thursday, 114 sailors have tested positively for the virus, Modly said, adding that he expects "hundreds more" to be infected.
  – Tom Vanden Brook 
  The Holland America cruise line  has reached a deal  with authorities that will allow it to dock two of its ships, the MS Zaandam and MS Rotterdam, at Port Everglades in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.
  Mayor Dean Trantalis of Fort Lauderdale announced the agreement on Twitter.
  Officials had been apprehensive about the possibility of the ships docking in Fort Lauderdale given the risk that it could pose to the community and the potential to require health care resources because cases of coronavirus were confirmed on board the MS Zaandam.
  – Morgan Hines 
  Connecticut Gov. Ned Lamont has confirmed the death of a six-week-old infant who had contracted the coronavirus. Lamont said the infant was from the Hartford area and was brought unresponsive to a hospital last week and could not be revived.
  “We believe this is one of the youngest lives lost anywhere due to complications relating to COVID-19,'' Lamont tweeted. "This is a virus that attacks our most fragile without mercy.''
  This marked the second coronavirus-related infant death in less than a week, after Illinois Department of Public Health director Dr. Ngozi Ezike announced on Saturday the death of an infant younger than one year in Chicago.
  – Lorenzo Reyes 
  The Federal Emergency Management Agency has  asked the Pentagon for 100,000 body bags  as the COVID-19 pandemic spirals. Known as mortuary pouches, the heavy-duty zippered bags are typically used in the military to contain the remains of troops killed in combat. The U.S. death toll has surpassed 5,000, and federal health officials have warned it could reach 100,000 or more before the crisis passes. 
  Spokesman Michael Andrews said the Pentagon is responding to "FEMA's prudent planning efforts on behalf of state health agencies."
  – Tom Vanden Brook 
  Personal protective equipment, including almost 200,000 N95 respirator masks, were seized by the FBI's Hoarding and Price Gouging Task Force and will be distributed to health care workers battling the pandemic in New York and New Jersey, federal officials said. The FBI did not reveal any names of the "hoarders" and said it would pay fair market value for the merchandise. The supplies include 598,000 medical-grade gloves and 130,000 surgical masks, other equipment and sanitizer, the Justice Department said in a statement.
  "If you are amassing critical medical equipment for the purpose of selling it at exorbitant prices, you can expect a knock at your door," Attorney General William Barr said.  
  Demand for ventilators in New York hospitals could outstrip supply in less than a week , Gov. Andrew Cuomo warned Thursday. "At current burn rate, we have about six days of ventilators in our stockpile," he said. He added some "good news" – the number of patients discharged from New York hospitals rose sharply Wednesday, although it remained short of patients being admitted.
  There were 7,434 coronavirus patients discharged from hospitals in the state, up 21% from Tuesday. Cuomo said there were 13,383 people currently hospitalized, an increase of 1,157 (9.5%) from a day earlier. The state had 92,381 confirmed cases and 2,373 deaths as of Thursday morning, he said.
  An overwhelming majority of the world's population  lives in a country with travel restrictions  as the coronavirus pandemic unfolds. Pew Research shows that 93% of the world's population – that's 7.2 billion people – lives somewhere that has a restriction on people arriving from elsewhere who aren't citizens or residents. And about 3 billion people (39%) reside where countries have shuttered borders completely to noncitizens and nonresidents. 
  In the U.S., all foreign nationals from China, Iran and certain European countries are barred from entering. And the border between Canada and the U.S. is closed for nonessential travel. 
  – David Oliver 
  Testing has accelerated in the last week, and a mix of public and private labs execute more than 100,000 tests per day. Still, experts said many patients and even health care providers  are denied tests or must wait several days  for results.
  “It’s not as if it’s a train running along, as you might’ve heard,” said William Schaffner, a Vanderbilt University School of Medicine professor of preventive medicine and an infectious-disease doctor. “Because testing is restricted still in many parts of the country.”  Read more here.  
  – Ken Alltucker 
  The New England Patriots' private jet is due back in Boston from China on Thursday,  loaded with 1.2 million N95 masks  that are crucial personal protective equipment for healthcare workers.
  The Wall Street Journal reports that Massachusetts Gov. Charlie Baker secured 1.7 million masks through manufacturers but had no way to transport them to the U.S. Jonathan Kraft, the Patriots chief operating officer, is also a chairman of the board at Massachusetts General Hospital. An idea was born.
  “In today’s world, those of us who are fortunate to make a difference have a significant responsibility to do so," Patriots owner Robert Kraft said.
  – Chris Bumbaca 
  Coronavirus in America:   How all 50 states are responding to this public health emergency. 
  Contributing: The Associated Press 
  • Readers have coronavirus questions. We're answering them:  Do malaria meds work?  How many people have recovered? 
  • This is what China did to beat the coronavirus. Experts say America couldn't handle it. 
  • 'It's just hard to live everyday life': Hospitals cancel surgeries amid coronavirus crisis, leaving Americans in pain. 
  • Support Local: Here's how you can help save a business in your community.  
  • Coronavirus Watch: Join our Facebook group. 
 