The  package late Wednesday night aimed at softening the economic blow of the coronavirus pandemic for American workers and businesses. The  billions of dollars in credit for struggling industries, a boost to unemployment insurance and direct cash payments to Americans.
  The fate of the bill now rests with the House, which will not vote until Friday, according to House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, D-Md.
   as the number of deaths linked to the coronavirus passed 1,000 in the country, according to a count of reports of cases and deaths by NBC News. Globally, the death toll topped 20,000, with nearly half a million reported cases.
  Meanwhile at the U.N.,   the Security Council to call attention to the Chinese origins of the  , four diplomats posted to the United Nations told NBC News, triggering a stalemate as the global body seeks to cobble together a response to the pandemic.
  
  
  
  Phil Helsel
  President Donald Trump tweeted early Friday that he had a "very good conversation" with China's President Xi Jinping, and that the two leaders discussed the coronavirus pandemic and are working closely together.
  Just finished a very good conversation with President Xi of China. Discussed in great detail the CoronaVirus that is ravaging large parts of our Planet. China has been through much & has developed a strong understanding of the Virus. We are working closely together. Much respect!
  State-run Xinhua reported that the two leaders had spoken. 
  Trump has repeatedly   the "Chinese virus," even though the World Health Organization   said that diseases should not be named based on geographic locations. The outbreak began in the Chinese city of Wuhan.
  Trump this week seemed to back off from the term. Trump was asked about the change in language Thursday and said that the virus did come from China but "I think it was time" and that "I don't have to say it, if they feel so strongly about it."
  Phil Helsel
  Montana Gov. Steve Bullock issued a   Thursday, which his office says requires residents to remain in their homes as much as possible and for nonessential businesses to temporarily close in order to slow the spread of the coronavirus.
  Montana   of the coronavirus illness COVID-19, many of them in Gallatin and Yellowstone counties, which is where Bozeman and Billings are located, respectively. The order goes into effect Saturday.
  Bullock also announced Thursday that the state has seen its first death related to the illness.
  Like other orders around the country, essential businesses like grocery stores and pharmacies will remain open and residents are allowed to leave to go shopping, take walks or other outdoor exercise or to walk dogs, and to care for loved ones, among other activities.
  I’m heartbroken to learn of Montana’s first death due to COVID-19. Montana truly is one big small town – this news hits us hard, but we’re in this together. My family and I send our love and support to the family, friends, and community of our fellow Montanan.
  Phil Helsel
  The Navy hospital ship USNS Mercy is expected to arrive in Los Angeles on Friday to support medical systems amid the coronavirus epidemic.
  President Donald Trump on March 18 said two hospital ships — the other is the USNS Comfort, which   for New York City on Saturday — would   to help in the outbreak.
  The Mercy set sail from San Diego this week. The Defense Department says the ship can hold up to 1,000 hospital beds, which will reduce the burden on regular hospitals that have to handle COVID-19 patients.
  COVID-19 is the illness caused by the coronavirus. In Los Angeles County, the number of cases grew to 1,216 Thursday, including 21 people who have died, the health department said. There had been 559 new cases confirmed in the past 48 hours, and   the large increase was in part due to greater testing capacity that is allowing officials to identify cases.
  Preparing for tomorrow's arrival in Los Angeles.  deployed in support of the nation's COVID-19 response efforts and will serve as a referral hospital for non-COVID-19 patients, allowing shore base hospitals to focus their efforts on   cases.  
  Kasie Hunt and Alex Moe
  WASHINGTON — Democratic and Republican leaders are scrambling members of Congress back to Washington late Thursday night because they suddenly believe the  might not pass by the voice vote planned for Friday and could be delayed if at least 216 members don’t show up to vote on the floor.
  Members are now racing to get back to D.C. by Friday morning — in the middle of the   — because leaders fear at least one member, likely Rep. Thomas Massie, R-Ky., will demand a recorded vote.
  Rep. Fred Upton, R-Mich.,   Thursday evening: “The CARES Act is historic legislation, which is why I'm driving back to DC to help get this thing over the finish line.” The drive from his Kalamazoo-area district is nearly 10 hours back to Washington.
  Ultimately, passage isn’t in jeopardy — but it could be delayed for as long as it takes for 216 members to arrive in Washington. The House gavels in at 9 a.m. on Friday and is expected to have two hours of debate.
   for the full story
  Sarah Kaufman and Caitlin Fichtel
  Four Massachusetts medical schools will allow their fourth-year classes to graduate a month early to aid hospitals with an anticipated jump in coronavirus cases. 
  Deans from Boston University, Harvard, Tufts and the University of Massachusetts accepted the state’s recommendation that students who would graduate in mid-May will now graduate in mid-April and be free to work in hospitals one month earlier than expected. 
  “We may need every physician we can get based on what has happened in Wuhan and Italy, and what is happening in New York,”   Karen Antman, dean of Boston University’s School of Medicine.
  The announcement came after NYU’s Grossman School of Medicine said Wednesday that it would let its fourth-year students graduate early to work and volunteer in hospitals.
  Suzanne Ciechalski
  People across the United States are pitching in to help sew fabric face masks to donate to hospitals, first responders and other people in need as the country grapples with a  , or PPE. 
  "Everybody just felt the same," said Jessy Broughton Gillespie, who started the group Sew You Care. "These are our people, this is our community. We should protect them."
  Gillespie launched the group on Facebook last week, and it now has more than 3,000 members working to sew masks and ship them to facilities and people who have reached out asking for donations. To be safe, she said, the group is asking members to wash their fabric and use sterile equipment. They also tell recipients that the masks are handmade and should be washed before use. Gillespie said they've made up to 8,000 masks this week and won't stop until they're no longer needed. 
  "We have to remember that the American spirit is amazing," she said. "In unprecedented times, we really do have unprecedented answers, and this is one of those."
  Homemade face masks  , according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, but might be used by health care personnel as a last resort. CDC guidance says homemade masks "should ideally be used in combination with a face shield that covers the entire front (that extends to the chin or below) and sides of the face." 
  Phil Helsel
  Idaho health authorities on Thursday announced the state's first deaths related to the coronavirus illness COVID-19, a day after the governor issued a  .
  The deceased were three men, all over age 60, the state health department said. Two were from Blaine County, and the third was from Canyon County. The Canyon County man had underlying health issues but it was not clear if the other two had any, the health department  .
  There have been 189 cases in the state,  . On Wednesday, Gov. Brad Little announced a   for Idaho in an effort to slow the spread of the virus.
  Phil Helsel
  A total of 155 inmates are under observation at a South Dakota jail where another prisoner tested positive for the coronavirus, and state officials   three more inmates who escaped this week are back in custody.
  The two inmates still missing from the minimum-security unit of the Pierre Community Work Center were identified as Philomene Boneshirt, 25, and Sylvia Red Leaf, 25, the state Department of Corrections said.
  The inmate who tested positive for COVID-19 remains in isolation, and no other inmates in the state system have tested positive, the department said.
  But the 155 are under observation because they had potential exposure to that inmate,  . Nine inmates  on Monday, but six have been returned to custody.
  Three additional female inmates are back in custody; Inmates Schoneman, Richards and Lamont apprehended in Pierre this evening. Inmates Boneshirt and Red Leaf remain on escape status.  
  Sarah Kaufman
  A video sent by a New York University dean in an email upset multiple students, some of whom called it “tone deaf.” Dean Allyson Green of Tisch School of the Arts at NYU inserted a video of herself dancing to R.E.M. in an email she sent to all Tisch students with campus updates regarding coronavirus. The email included the information that students would not be receiving tuition refunds.
  Green argues in her email that refunding tuition would be challenging for the university because remote learning is costing millions of dollars. She also argues the university has to pay for facilities.
  The Dean of Tisch sent this as an attachment to the email saying they won't give us our money back. Embarrassing.  
  “But we are still paying for these whether or not they are empty for the rest of the semester. We are also continuing to support payments to our valued colleagues, and we just won’t let them down,” the email said.
  Neither Green nor the university immediately responded to a request for comment.
  Students took issue with the juxtaposition of the carefree video and the bad news on tuition.
  “There’s a feeling amongst the students, Tisch specifically, that we are being cheated out of something, so everyone thought it was really ridiculous and tone deaf,” said Tisch senior Michael Price. “She’s not answering any of our questions and it’s just her dancing to ‘Losing my Religion.’”
  Jonathan Dienst and Tom Winter
  John Miller, the NYPD's deputy commissioner for counterterrorism and intelligence, is in a hospital with the coronavirus, four law enforcement officials said.
  Miller had had not been feeling well for a couple of days and went to the hospital, the officials said.
  Two other law enforcement sources said Miller had a low fever and went to the hospital as a precaution, and that he is alert and in good spirits and has been taking calls from family and friends throughout the day.
  New York City had more than 23,000 coronavirus cases as of Thursday night. There have been 365 deaths in the city related to the illness, according to  . The police department said Wednesday that 100 sworn members and 29 civilians have tested positive for the coronavirus illness COVID-19.
  Also on Thursday, the department reported its first death from the disease, Custodial Assistant Dennis Dickson.
  We are sad to announce the passing of our own NYPD family member, Custodial Assistant Dennis Dickson. Mr. Dickson faithfully served this department for 14 yrs & is the 1st member to succumb to the COVID-19 virus. Our thoughts go out to his loved ones during this difficult time.  
 