As the  nation's death toll from the coronavirus  marked the grim milestone of more than 50,000 people, some  businesses in Georgia were slowly reopening Friday    despite backlash  from the state's mayors and President Donald Trump.
  Also  drawing a strong reaction  across the country were  Trump's comments late Thursday , which suggested treating COVID-19 with disinfectants, perhaps by injection, or by treating patients with "light inside the body." Disinfectant manufacturer Lysol, Maryland emergency managers and other health officials were quick to warn people against ingesting or injecting disinfectants, saying the idea was potentially dangerous.
  The FDA issued a warning Friday against the anti-malaria drugs Trump also has touted as possible COVID-19 cures. The agency said hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine should not be used outside of a hospital setting or clinical trial as they can cause serious complications related to heart rhythm problems.
  Meanwhile, Friday also marks the beginning of  Ramadan, Islam's holiest month . But some are worried that social distancing may affect its traditions such as daytime fasting, overnight festivity and communal prayer.
  The virus has killed more than 194,000 people globally, according to  Johns Hopkins University data . More than 2.7 million confirmed cases have been reported, including more than 890,000 in the U.S. 
  Our live blog is being updated throughout the day. Refresh for the latest news, and get updates in your inbox with  The Daily Briefing .  More headlines: 
  A federal study that  indicates sunlight and humidity can weaken the coronavirus  prompted Trump to float the idea of treating patients with "light inside the body." However, top administration officials  warned against Americans changing their behavior  based on the preliminary findings.
  The Department of Homeland Security study, which the the agency described as "emerging," found the lifespan of the virus on a surface or in the air could be significantly reduced by exposure to sunlight and humidity.
  Bill Bryan, an undersecretary of science and technology at the Department of Homeland Security, stressed that the findings were not so conclusive that Americans should abandon social distancing guidelines promoted by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and enforced by state orders across the country. It would be "irresponsible for us to say that we feel that the summer is just going to totally kill the virus," Bryan told reporters.
  – John Fritze, David Jackson and Nicholas Wu 
  The  makers of Lysol , one of the nation's largest cleaning and disinfecting brands, and emergency managers in Maryland have warned the public not to inject or ingest disinfectants as a coronavirus treatment a day after President Donald Trump speculated about another possible treatment for COVID-19: injecting disinfectants.
  Parent company Reckitt Benckiser, the maker of Lysol and Dettol, said in  a statement  on its website Friday: "We must be clear that under no circumstance should our disinfectant products be administered into the human body (through injection, ingestion or any other route)."  
  The Maryland Emergency Management Agency also warned against dangerous disinfectant use in a  Friday tweet  after the agency received "several calls."
  "This is a reminder that under no circumstances should any disinfectant product be administered into the body through injection, ingestion or any other route," the tweet says.
  At Thursday's press briefing, Bill Bryan, an undersecretary of science and technology at the Department of Homeland Security, said preliminary findings show bleach and isopropyl alcohol as effective in killing the virus on surfaces. The finding prompted Trump to say later in the briefing, "I see the disinfectant, where it knocks it out in a minute. One minute. And is there a way we can do something like that, by injection inside or almost a cleaning."
  – Dalvin Brown, Savannah Behrmann and Joel Shannon 
  Reaction: Twitter names Trump the 'Tide Pods' president after he suggests disinfectant injections 
  The  Food and Drug Administration issued a warning  Friday against the use of anti-malaria drugs touted by President Donald Trump as a possible COVID-19 treatment outside of a hospital setting or clinical trial.
  Hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine can cause serious problems  related to patients' heart rhythms for COVID-19 cases, especially when used in combination with other medicines that have the effect of causing abnormal heart rhythms or a dangerously rapid heart rate, the FDA warned.
  "Hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine have not been shown to be safe and effective for treating or preventing COVID-19," the FDA warning said. The agency has, however, temporarily authorized their use for treating the virus in hospitalized patients when a clinical trial is not available. Clinical trials testing the drugs efficacy and safety in COVID-19 patients are being studied, the FDA said.
  Thousands of people  gathered on the steps of the Wisconsin State Capitol in Madison  on Friday to protest Gov. Tony Evers' orders, rallying in close quarters on a day the state saw its highest daily increase in positive cases of coronavirus. 
  The crowd stood in defiance of the governor's order to keep businesses and schools closed, and people apart, in an effort to limit the spread of the virus for which there is no vaccine. Circulating among the crowd were petitions to recall Evers and signs that said "All Workers Are Essential" and "Death is preferable to communism." American flags were in abundance, and some participants openly carried rifles.
  Nurses lined Wisconsin's capitol building steps with 1,300 candles  Thursday night in tribute to those currently hospitalized with COVID-19 in the state.  Hundreds of people crammed the steps  of one of the capitol's entrances Friday.
  – Ricardo Torres, Molly Beck and Bill Glauber, Milwaukee Journal Sentinel  
  Businesses in Georgia took their first steps toward a slow reopening of its economy Friday as the state's push to ease social distancing measures faced criticism from public health officials, mayors and President Donald Trump.
  Republican Gov. Brian Kemp has assured businesses that Georgia's new cases and hospital visits have lowered enough for barbers, tattoo artists, massage therapists and personal trainers to return to work with restrictions.
  Still, deaths and infections rise as many business owners plan to stay closed.
  By 11 a.m. Friday,  Good Look Barber Shop  in Marietta, Ga. had serviced at least 20 clients, owner Y’Kheyo Underwood said. Shannon Stafford, owner of New Era Hair Salon in Savannah, said she scheduled only one client Friday as a test run for the reopening.
  – Nicquel Terry Ellis 
  President Donald Trump signed a  nearly half-trillion dollar bill  Friday that provides more funding for struggling hospitals and replenishes a loan program designed to help small businesses impacted by the pandemic.
  The $484 billion legislation, which  cleared the Senate  on Tuesday and the  House on Thursday , provides an additional $320 billion to the Paycheck Protection Program, which offers forgivable loans to small businesses. The program was created in March with an initial allocation of $349 billion, but it  ran out of money last week  and was forced to shut down.
  The new law also includes about $75 billion in relief for hospitals that have been overwhelmed with treating coronavirus patients. Another $25 billion in the measure will go toward a new coronavirus testing program.
  – Michael Collins 
  As coronavirus cases mounted at meatpacking plants this month, the federal government granted 15 poultry processors waivers to cut chickens faster,  usually by crowding more workers onto their production lines . 
  Overall, poultry plants with such waivers are at least 10 times more likely than the meatpacking industry as a whole to have coronavirus cases among workers, USA TODAY and the Midwest Center for Investigative Reporting found.
  The U.S. Department of Agriculture granted more of those waivers in one week in April than it had in any previous month over the past eight years of the program’s existence. But an agency spokesperson wouldn’t explain why in an email responding to USA TODAY’s questions.
  Three of the 15 poultry plants granted new waivers in April have reported outbreaks of COVID-19, the media outlets found. Another three plants that already had waivers also have outbreaks. Some 53 poultry plants nationwide have the waivers.
  Read the full investigation here . 
  – Sky Chadde and Kyle Bagenstose 
  New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, a Democrat, suggested President Donald Trump was "right to ask the question" of the World Health Organization's response to the coronavirus pandemic.
  "This was too little too late," Cuomo said at a Friday news conference. The governor criticized the global response to the pandemic as the virus began spreading in China late last year, and soon spread to Europe and the United States.
  Cuomo said more than 13,000 flights carrying more than 2.2 million people from Europe came to the larger New York area after the virus started spreading. He said Trump was right to stop travel from China but that quicker action was needed to slow the spread from China to other countries sooner.
  "Does anyone think the virus was still in China waiting for us to act two months later?" he said. "The horse had already left the barn by the time we moved."
  – Joseph Spector 
  NY virus cases mostly didn't come from China: European travelers brought coronavirus to New York long before first case confirmed, studies suggest 
  In a series of breathtaking multibillion-dollar bets,  possible vaccine candidates to fight the new coronavirus  are being prepared for production across the globe in one of the most dramatic examples of short cuts and streamlining aimed at meeting what many experts consider unrealistic U.S. target dates for a vaccine.
  Dr. Anthony Fauci has repeatedly said a vaccine may be ready in 12 to 18 months, but that timeline would shatter all precedents for developing a new vaccine, which typically takes many years. 
  Manufacturing tens of millions of unproven vaccine doses on spec is unheard of, there is no certainty any will work, and if one does prove effective, getting it into the arms of people will require the Food and Drug Administration to speed up its approval process.
  – Elizabeth Weise, David Heath and Joey Garrison 
  New York  rapper Fred the Godson died Thursday  after being diagnosed with COVID-19, his manager confirmed to USA TODAY. He was 35. "New York City, Hip-Hop and the world lost a really good one yesterday," the rapper's manager, David Evans, said in an emailed statement. "Fred left this world better than he found it."
  The "Armageddon" artist revealed in a social media post earlier this month that he had contracted coronavirus. A few days after Fred's post, his wife LeeAnn Jemmott told XXL Magazine that her husband was in the intensive care unit.
  – Rasha Ali 
  A growing number of COVID-19 patients in China are still testing positive for the virus after having recovered and not showing symptoms, according to a  report from Reuters . Doctors in Wuhan said that some patients have tested negative but then later tested positive again, some up to 70 days later.
  Chinese health officials told the news agency that there have been no confirmed cases of these patients infecting someone else, but it still raises concerns of patients remaining positive and potentially infectious as countries around the world look to end lockdowns.
  South Korea and Italy have also reported cases of patients testing positive for about a month, Reuters reported.
  Contributing: The Associated Press 
 