President Donald Trump hinted at a second round of stimulus checks before Americans have received their first, U.S. stocks had their biggest rally in nearly two weeks while the coronavirus hot spot of New York City offered a glimmer of hope Monday as the U.S.  death toll from the coronavirus pandemic surpassed 10,000 .
  Trump has warned of reaching a "horrific point in terms of death" at the hands of the coronavirus pandemic in coming days.  But Trump and federal health officials also said there were signs the outbreak might be reaching its apex in some hard-hit areas such as  New York City  and Washington state.
  Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said New York was showing good signs during Monday's task force briefing. Dr. Deborah Birx added with hard work there is "potential to go under the numbers that were predicted by the models."
  "Everybody who knows me know I'm very conservative about making projections, but those are the kind of good signs that you look for," Fauci said. "You never even begin to think about claiming victory prematurely, but that's the first thing you see when you start to see the turnaround."
  New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said deaths and hospitalizations showed signs of "plateauing." Washington Gov. Jay Inslee announced his state would return 400 ventilators to the federal government after state health officials there said they were seeing fewer infections than anticipated. Louisiana Gov. John Bel Edwards said the state may have reached its peak, but warned the trend could be undone if people don't follow his stay-at-home order.
  In other news Monday, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson  was transferred to the intensive care unit  of a London hospital.
  There are more than 368,000 confirmed cases of coronavirus in the U.S., and more than 10,900 people have died, according to the  Johns Hopkins University data dashboard . More than 1.3 million cases have been confirmed worldwide, with 74,000 deaths.
  Our live blog is being updated throughout the day. Refresh for the latest news, and get updates in your inbox with  The Daily Briefing .  More headlines: 
  Even before Americans get to cash in their stimulus payments, President Donald Trump is floating the idea of a second round. At Monday's news briefing, Trump said a second set of direct payments is under consideration to help blunt the economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic.
  “We could very well do a second round,” Trump said. “It is absolutely under serious consideration.”
  Millions of Americans will receive one-time checks of up to $1,200 as part of a $2.2 trillion economic recovery package that Trump signed into law at the end of March. The IRS said the payments should start arriving as early as next week.
  Congressional officials and the Trump administration also have said another recovery package may be needed.
  – Michael Collins 
  British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who was hospitalized Sunday as he continued to experience COVID-19 symptoms 10 days after testing positive,  was moved to the intensive care unit  Monday when the symptoms worsened.
  Johnson, 55, asked Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab "to deputize for him where necessary," according to a Downing Street statement.
  The prime minister's office said early Monday that Johnson was awaiting results of "routine" tests for the symptoms, which included a fever and cough, and described the hospitalization as a "precautionary step."
  Johnson's medical setback comes at a time when Britain appears to have become Europe's deadliest hot spot, recording more than 600 deaths Sunday and outpacing world leader Italy in that grim tally for the second day in a row.
  Johnson is among several world leaders  who have been exposed to the virus .
  President Donald Trump said Monday that Minnesota-based 3M would produce more than 166 million masks to help the government confront the coronavirus pandemic, apparently ending a showdown in which Trump repeatedly threatened the company.
  Days earlier, Trump said 3M would have a “big price to pay” over what the administration described as the company’s desire to export N95 respirator masks it had produced to other countries. Trump had threatened to use his wartime powers to seize control of the masks.
  In a statement Friday, 3M responded to the president’s harsh rhetoric by arguing it had gone "above and beyond" to make enough respirator masks available in the U.S., and saying domestic production would increase to 50 million a month starting in June.
  The N95 respirators have proven more effective at protecting wearers from the spread of virus-carrying particles than standard masks.
  – John Fritze and Brett Molina 
  U.S. stocks had their biggest rally in nearly two weeks Monday on signs of a slowdown in coronavirus deaths and new cases in some of the hardest-hit areas throughout the world.
  The Dow Jones Industrial Average  jumped 1,627.46 points  to close at 22,679.99. It was the third-largest one-day increase in history. The Standard & Poor’s 500 rose 7% to end at 2,663.68, its best percentage gain since March 24 after recording a third week of losses in the past four on Friday. All 11 sectors in the broad index were higher, led by gains in the technology, utility and materials sectors. 
  Global markets stabilized overnight as the number of people dying appears to be slowing in New York City, Spain and Italy, news that was cautiously welcomed by leaders. But they noted that any gains could easily be reversed if people didn’t continue to adhere to strict lockdowns.
  – Jessica Menton 
  Although it's been suggested that flights be cut between coronavirus hotspots around the country, President Donald Trump said Monday he recognizes  it's important to maintain airline service  to support movement of the military and medical workers.
  "We need those flights for emergency use, for military people," Trump said at his daily press conference on the crisis. "We need some flights for medical people – and there are very few flights."
  He acknowledged that while flights are largely flying empty, the alternative would be to use government planes, not airlines, so essential workers can fly between cities.
  Under the coronavirus stimulus package, airlines benefiting from $50 billion in aid are required to maintain a minimum amount of service on their route network. The airlines have been dramatically cutting the number of flights, though, because there are so few passengers.
  – Chris Woodyard 
  Controversy intensified  Monday over the value of hydroxychloroquine, an antimalarial drug frequently touted by President Donald Trump as a crucial tool in the battle to save the lives of COVID-19 patients.
  Peter Navarro, director of the White House Office of Trade and Manufacturing Policy, vigorously defended the drug in a CNN interview, one day after Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, had suggested the data on the drug was "at best suggestive."
  "I would have two words for you," Navarro said when told of Fauci's reticence. "Second opinion."
  Dr. Robert Glatter, emergency physician at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City, says more testing and analysis are needed: "The reality is that we will likely need multi-drug regimens, similar to the way we have approached HIV or cancer. One drug will likely not be enough."
  • The hydroxychloroquine debate: Why is the malaria drug in the news and what do we know about it? 
  •  Get daily updates in your inbox:  Sign up for our Coronavirus Watch newsletter. 
  Louisiana Gov. John Bel Edwards said Monday the state may have reached its peak of coronavirus infection, but warned the trend could be  undone if people don't follow his stay-at-home order .
  "We believe we might be seeing the beginning of the flattening of the curve," Edwards said, noting "our fear" is people will think they can relax the mitigation and social distancing measures "that brought us to this point."
  He added, "While all numbers are still high we're starting to see real signs these mitigation measures are starting to yield real results."
  The University of Washington's Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation adjusted it's projections for  Louisiana coronavirus deaths from 1,834 to 746 , an indication that the governor's stay-at-home order and social distancing are making a difference.
  -- Greg Hilburn, Monroe News-Star; Andrew Capps, Lafayette Daily Advertiser 
  Wisconsin Gov. Tony Evers sought to postpone Tuesday's election because of the coronavirus crisis, but  the move was swiftly rejected  by Republican lawmakers and the conservative majority of the state Supreme Court by the end of Monday.
  Evers, a Democrat, issued an executive order Monday afternoon — 18 hours before polls were set to open — to avoid causing more illness and deaths as Wisconsin's coronavirus infections surged to more than 2,400. 
  But the state's highest court reinstated the election within hours, capping off nearly six hours of chaos as election officials told clerks to continue preparing for an election because they did not know whether the polls would open. Before the court acted, at least three local government leaders had issued their own orders to block in-person voting. 
  – Molly Beck and Patrick Marley, Milwaukee Journal Sentinel 
  The Acting Secretary of the Navy, Thomas Modly, told the crew of the USS Theodore Roosevelt their ousted commander, Capt. Brett Crozier, was either "too naive or too stupid" to be in command.
  Then, in a stunning reversal, Modly apologized to Crozier, his family and the Navy in a statement late Monday night.
  "Let me be clear, I do not think Capt. Brett Crozier is naive or stupid," Modly said, according to the statement released by the Navy. "I think, and always believed him to be the opposite."
  A day earlier, Modly said Crozier may have intentionally leaked to the media a memo in which he warned about the coronavirus spreading aboard the aircraft carrier and urged action to save his sailors, according to a transcript of the remarks obtained by CNN.
  The number of daily COVID-19 hospitalizations in New York state declined again and deaths may be leveling off, Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Monday. Cuomo also said he would ask President Donald Trump for permission to use the 1,000-bed USNS Comfort for COVID-19 patients since there is little demand for beds for other illnesses. Trump later said he would grant Cuomo's wish and the ship would serve infected patients from New York and New Jersey. The Comfort anchored in New York's harbor with a mission to treat non-virus patients so hospitals could concentrate on coronavirus patients.
  Cuomo also said demand for hospital beds and ventilators may not reach numbers previously projected if residents continue to follow social distancing and other guidelines. But he also announced an increase in the fine, to $1,000 from $500, for failing to follow the rules.
  "There is a real danger in getting overconfident," Cuomo said at his daily news conference. "This is an enemy that we have underestimated from day one and we have paid the price dearly."
  A nurse at a hospital in Louisville, Kentucky,  said she was suspended for insubordination  for refusing to treat COVID-19 patients when the hospital would not supply her with a protective respirator. 
  Kenyatta Ervin, 49, said that because of her past health conditions, including pneumonia and asthma, she will die if infected with the virus and she needs the protection of an N95 mask, which have been in short supply. 
  She said in an interview Monday that supervisors at Norton Women’s and Children’s Hospital would only give her a surgical mask, a loose-fitting disposable device that isn’t sealed around the nose and mouth. Her lawyer said Ervin was sent home March 31 for refusing to provide patient care.
  “That is absolutely not true,” she said. “I want to care for my patients. I know they need me.” 
  – Andrew Wolfson, Louisville Courier Journal 
  New York City is looking into  temporarily burying the dead on public lands  because of the mounting death toll from the pandemic. Mark D. Levine, chairman of the health committee for New York City Council, said coroner freezers were filling fast.
  "Soon we'll start 'temporary interment'. This likely will be done by using a NYC park for burials (yes you read that right)," Mark D. Levine tweeted. "Trenches will be dug for 10 caskets in a line. It will be done in a dignified – orderly and temporary – manner. But it will be tough for NYers to take."
  A spokesperson for the city Office of Chief Medical Examiner told the USA TODAY Network that burials are being conducted at Hart Island, an area that has a history of being used for burials of the indigent and unclaimed dead. Aja Worthy-Davis said planning was underway "for all possibilities, however no decision has been made, and there is still adequate capacity at this time."
  – David Robinson 
  The state of Washington will return more than 400 ventilators received from the Strategic National Stockpile for use by states facing higher numbers of COVID-19 cases, Gov. Jay Inslee said.
  Still, the state was preparing for increased hospitalizations and recently purchased more than 750 ventilators expected to arrive over the next several weeks, Inslee said.
  Vice Admiral Raquel Bono, director of the state COVID-19 Health System Response Management, said mitigation efforts resulted in "fewer infections in our communities than anticipated.” The University of Washington’s Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation forecast indicates the state hit peak hospital resource demand Thursday. Daily deaths were forecast to peak Monday at 19 before slowly declining. 
  Washington state was the first U.S. epicenter for the virus when it swept through a nursing home in the Seattle suburb of Kirkland, ultimately killing more than 30 people there.
  . The graphic below shows the number of new cases each day.
  Very different: Queen Elizabeth gives a coronavirus speech and the contrast with Trump is stunning 
  A tiger at the Bronx Zoo tested positive  for COVID-19 after multiple animals developed virus symptoms, federal officials confirmed. Nadia, a 4-year-old Malayan tiger, was tested after her sister Azul, two Amur tigers and three African lions developed a dry cough. The animals are all expected to recover.
  The U.S. Department of Agriculture confirmed the tests Sunday and is working with the Centers for Disease and Control Prevention (CDC) along with state animal and public health leaders to determine whether animals, at the zoo or in other areas, should be tested for the cornavirus.
  "This is the first case of its kind,'' the USDA said in a statement. Public health officials believe the animals became sick after being exposed to an infected employee "who was actively shedding virus.''
  Zoological pathology expert Karen Terio  warned against jumping to conclusions  about what this case might mean for pets and the humans who care for them, saying, "A tiger is different than a domestic cat, and I can't emphasize that enough."
  – Jessie Gomez, Bergen Record, and Ryan W. Miller, USA TODAY 
  Contributing: Jessica Flores, USA TODAY; The Associated Press 
 