As President Donald Trump on Thursday continued his quest for states to reopen and rekindle the nation's economy, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention warned doctors to look out for a new inflammatory disease in children that may be related to the coronavirus.
  Stocks pushed higher after two days of steep losses despite warnings of a possibly  prolonged national recession  and a former federal health official saying the coronavirus crisis could result in the nation's " darkest winter in modern history."  The global total of deaths from COVID-19 surged past 300,000.
  Florida unveiled plans to begin reopening Miami next week, and  New Jersey will open its beaches  Memorial Day weekend.
  The U.S. has the largest coronavirus outbreak in the world by far. There are almost 86,000 deaths and more than 1.4 million confirmed cases, according to the  Johns Hopkins University data dashboard . Worldwide, the virus has killed more than 302,000 people and has infected more than 4.4 million.
  Our live blog is being updated throughout the day. Refresh for the latest news, and get updates in your inbox with  The Daily Briefing . Scroll down for more details. 
  Here are some of the most significant recent developments: 
  What we're talking about Thursday:  Goodbye handshake:  How do we replace the ancient greeting if coronavirus keeps us from touching? 
  Some good news:   This video of 200 goats  roaming California streets freely will make you smile.
  Touring a Pennsylvania medical equipment factory, President Donald Trump  pressed again for a quicker reopening  of the struggling U.S economy, taking his case to a battleground state.
  Speaking to employees of Owens and Minor Inc., which makes masks, gloves, and surgical gowns in Allentown, Trump continued his open feud with Democratic governor Tom Wolf. 
  "We have to get your governor of Pennsylvania to start opening up a little bit,'' Trump said. "You have areas of Pennsylvania that are barely affected, and they want to keep them closed. You can’t do that.''
  Trump was notably among the few people not wearing a mask during the tour. Aides including Jared Kushner and Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar, as well as Secret Service members and employees seated in the audience were all seen wearing face coverings during the visit. 
  -- Courtney Subramanian and David Jackson 
  Crossing the 300,000 mark in global deaths from COVID-19 on Thursday served as another grim reminder of the enormous damage inflicted by the virus, with the U.S. right in the middle of the pandemic.
  No country approaches even half the 85,000-plus lives the U.S. has lost. That figure represents about 28% of the world's total even though the  American population makes up only 4.3% of the global amount.  
  Next on the death toll list is Great Britain with more than 33,000. The UK population of 67 million is about 20% of the U.S.'s 330 million, so the British rate of fatalities is considerably higher than America's.
  Wisconsin lawmakers said counties and cities  should determine their respective reopening plans  after the state's Supreme Court struck down the extension of a stay-at-home order issued by Gov. Tony Evers.
  Officials in at least 12 cities and counties have issued their own orders placing restrictions on businesses and gatherings each with varying expiration dates.
  The rest of the state doesn't have any restrictions, leaving a patchwork of rules that GOP leaders hadn't previously called for but are now embracing.
  As of Thursday, 11,275 people had been infected by the virus in Wisconsin and 434 people have died.
  - Molly Beck and Patrick Marley, Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Thursday issued an alert for doctors to watch out for signs of a new inflammatory disease in children that may be related to the coronavirus.
  The CDC is calling the illness "multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children,'' or MIS-C, and it has already been detected in 19 states and Washington, D.C.,  NBC News reported . New York, the state with the largest outbreak of COVID-19 in the nation, has reported at least 110 cases of the mysterious illness, three of them resulting in death. Most patients with the syndrome have either tested positive for the virus or for antibodies, proof they have been infected, but have been asymptomatic.
  The new illness  has several symptoms in common with Kawasaki disease , including prolonged fever, a rash, conjunctivitis, swelling of the palms or soles of the feet, sometimes peeling of the skin in those areas and lymph node enlargement. Two notable differences is MIS-C sometimes causes a rapid heartbeat, and it can afflict children quite a bit older than 5, which is rare for Kawasaki.
  One of the most noticeable long-term victims of the COVID-19 crisis may be restaurants,  with 25% of them likely shuttering for good . That's the forecast from the reservation service OpenTable, whose bookings on Wednesday had shrunk by 95% compared to May 13 of last year, Bloomberg reported.
  The National Restaurant Association said its members lost about $30 billion in March, and $50 billion in April. In the last week alone, several restaurants have announced they won't re-open, including the buffet chain Sweet Tomatoes/Souplantation, Jen's Grill in Chicago and 32-year-old Ristorante Franchino in San Francisco.
  -- Jefferson Graham 
  The case of an NBC News contributor who is hospitalized with COVID-19 may further add to the notion that the coronavirus can be acquired through the eyes, although there's no conclusive body of evidence.
  Dr. Joseph Fair, a virologist who does reports for the network,  said he believes he got infected on a crowded flight home to New Orleans  despite taking protective measures. He got sick three days later.
  "I had a mask on, I had gloves on, I did my normal wipes routine ... but obviously, you can still get it through your eyes," Fair, 42, said from the hospital on the "TODAY'' show. "And of course I wasn’t wearing goggles on the flight."
  A small study published in the March 31 edition of  JAMA Ophthalmology  showed 12 of 38 COVID-19 patients from Hubei province, China, had ocular manifestations of the virus. Researchers concluded that "although there is a low prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 in tears, it is possible to transmit via the eyes.''
  New Jersey's  beaches can reopen by Memorial Day weekend  but with rules in place that will require beachgoers to spread out their umbrellas and chairs more than usual. Gov. Phil Murphy said towns that open their beaches, boardwalks and lakefronts must comply with social distancing measures and limit capacity. More than 15,000 coronavirus deaths have been reported in New Jersey so far, the second-highest total behind New York.
  “The Jersey Shore after all is where memories are made," Murphy said. "The last thing any of us wanted was a summertime down the shore to be a memory.” 
  – Stacey Barchenger 
  Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis announced an executive order moving Miami-Dade and Broward counties – the hardest hit in the state – into Phase One of his reopening plan. The plan allows retail businesses and restaurants to open Monday at 50% capacity with certain social distancing and hygiene requirements. Beaches in the counties will remain closed. Miami, Miami Beach and Hialeah – Miami-Dade’s bigger cities – will not allow retailers to open until Wednesday and restaurants to open, likely, the following week.
  Almost 800 coronavirus deaths have been reported in the two counties, which include almost half of Florida’s more than 43,200 confirmed cases.
  –  Lorenzo Reyes 
  An immunologist who says he was unfairly ousted from the Department of Health and Human Services said Thursday that if the U.S. does not develop a plan to address a second wave of the virus, the country will experience the  "darkest winter in modern history."  
  Rick Bright, who was removed last month from his position as the director of HHS' Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, testified before the House Energy and Commerce Committee that the nation might be rushing too quickly on a vaccine before a full assessment is made of its effectiveness and safety. A 12-to-18-month schedule to develop one would require everything to go perfectly, he said.
  “We’ve never seen anything go perfectly,” he added.
  –  Maureen Groppe and William Cummings 
  Some of the year's most beaten-down stocks spearheaded an afternoon rally that overcame a sharp morning drop and sent Wall Street into positive territory Thursday after losing about 4% over the previous two days. 
  Despite the Labor Department's report that almost 3 million Americans filed unemployment claims last week, the S&P 500 climbed 1.2% in another scattershot day of trading, with many stocks flipping from the bottom of the leaderboard to the top following a few sharp reversals in momentum.
  It’s the latest wobble for Wall Street, which has been wavering for weeks as it digests gargantuan moves the market made earlier this year, first down more than 30% on worries about the coming recession and then up more than 30% on hopes for a relatively quick rebound. Trading has been particularly erratic this week.
  -- The Associated Press 
  Sen. Richard Burr is  stepping down as chairman of the Intelligence Committee , Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said Thursday, as an FBI investigation into Burr's stock sales led to the seizure of his cellphone by the FBI. A senior Justice Department official  confirmed that Burr's phone had been seized as the agency probes stock sales that the GOP senator made ahead of the coronavirus market crash. 
  Burr, R-N.C., and his wife sold up to $1.6 million in stocks in February, and said they did so based only on public news reports about the coronavirus. The 2012 Stock Act bars members of Congress from using insider information to make trading decisions. Burr was one of three senators who voted against the law.
  – Jeanine Santucci 
  As talk of reopening dominates conversations, plenty of people are still being sickened by the coronavirus. An American has been testing positive about every 4 seconds, a USA TODAY analysis of Johns Hopkins data shows. That's a small let-up compared to the worst period, the week ending April 10, when an American was getting diagnosed about every 3 seconds. In contrast, in the week ending March 1, an American tested positive about once every 3 hours.
  In raw numbers: 
  •  In the latest week, 161,075 Americans got newly confirmed with the virus. That's comparable to the seven-day stretch ending April 2, when Florida became the last state with 5,000 or more infections to get a stay-at-home order.
  •  In the last week, America added cases at a rate of 72% of that worst seven-day spell ending April 10, when America added 221,168 confirmed cases.
  -- Janie Haseman and Mike Stucka 
  Almost 3 million Americans filed initial unemployment benefit claims last week, the Labor Department said Thursday,  spotlighting another wave of job cuts  and adding to the unprecedented economic damage wrought by the pandemic. In the past week, well-known companies such as Uber, General Electric and Airbnb have laid off thousands of workers. More than 36 million workers now have sought jobless benefits in eight weeks.
  Economist Ryan Sweet of Moody’s Analytics predicts 11 million payroll losses in May and another 2 million in June and unemployment peaking at a brutal 23% before job gains return in July as more businesses reopen.
  –  Paul Davidson 
  One minute of talking loudly can produce more than  1,000 virus-containing droplets that could linger in the air for over 8 minutes , according to a new study published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. Because droplets that exist in an asymptomatic person's mouth can carry respiratory pathogens, such as SARS-CoV-2, "there is a substantial probability that normal speaking causes airborne virus transmission in confined environments," the study says.
  "This study builds on earlier research ... and adds support to the importance of wearing a mask," the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases said in a statement to USA TODAY.
  – Jessica Flores 
  A study published in the New England Journal of Medicine found that cats " can readily become infected " with the coronavirus and may be able to pass it on to other cats.
  Yoshihiro Kawaoka, a professor of Pathobiological Sciences at the University of Wisconsin School of Veterinary Medicine, led the study. In it, researchers administered the virus, which had been isolated from a human patient, to three cats. The next day, researchers detected the virus in two of the cats using nasal swabs. By the third day, they detected the virus in all the cats.
  The day after administering the virus to the first three cats, researchers placed another cat in each of their cages. Researchers didn't administer the coronavirus to the newly added cats. Within two days, one of the new cats was shedding the virus, and in six days all cats were doing so.
 