Good morning, NBC News readers.
  Half a million souls have succumbed to the coronavirus around the globe. President Donald Trump says there was no "credible" intelligence Russia offered Taliban fighters bounties to kill Americans. And a Confederate symbol will no longer fly on one state flag.
  Here's what we're watching this Monday morning.
  The   Sunday, while the number of confirmed cases worldwide reached 10 million, according to a tally by  .
  The United States continues to lead in the number of confirmed cases, with more than  , according to NBC News' tally.
  Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar warned Sunday that   of the coronavirus as cases across the southern United States continue "surging."
  In an interview with "Meet the Press," Azar said that the country has "more tools than we had months ago" to fight the virus and the disease it causes, including new treatments and more personal protective equipment. But he stressed that America is facing a "very serious situation."
  "We have to act and people and individuals need to act responsibly. We need to social distance, we need to wear face coverings if we are in settings where we cannot social distance, particularly in these hot zones," said Azar.
  In contrast to his boss, Vice President Mike Pence also   to prevent the spread of COVID-19 on Sunday.
  "We encourage everyone to wear a mask in the affected areas," Pence said at a press conference alongside Texas and Trump administration officials. "Where you can't maintain social distancing, wearing a mask is just a good idea, especially young people," he added.
  President Donald Trump has generally refused to wear a mask in public settings, though he did wear one   of a Ford plant in Michigan weeks ago.
  Meantime, California Gov. Gavin Newsom ordered seven counties, including Los Angeles,   Sunday as coronavirus cases surge in the state.
  President Donald Trump said that U.S. intelligence officials had "just" told him there was no credible information suggesting   militants who killed American soldiers.
  Because of this, intelligence officials had not initially reported the allegations to him or the vice president,  .
  The statement followed reports that the U.S. had gathered intelligence that Russian intelligence officers had offered to pay the bounties,  . NBC News has not confirmed that the U.S. has verified that any such bounty payments were made.
  The news first reported by   on Friday  .
  While the president remains focused on outside foes, the threat from within could well prove a decisive factor this fall, with well-financed campaigns led by seasoned political operatives aimed at shaving away support from the GOP base in an election that could wind up being decided on the margins.
  As lifelong conservatives, these   say they are in a unique position to reach like-minded voters who are uncomfortable with Trump's rhetoric and actions but hesitant to back a Democrat.
  "What we wanted to create is a movement among rank-and-file Republicans to give them a sense of community and a sense of encouragement from walking away from this president," said Tim Miller, a former spokesman for the Republican National Committee.
  Trump's own actions don't help his cause with Republicans who have grown tired of his divisive rhetoric.
  The president promoted a video on Twitter Sunday morning showing a man in a golf cart with Trump campaign gear  
  The tweet was later removed from his feed, but critics said it fit a longstanding pattern of the president appearing sympathetic to white supremacists.
  Mississippi lawmakers on Sunday voted in favor of  , a symbol that has flown around the state for more than 120 years.
  The bill passed the House by a vote of 91-23, quickly followed by a 37-14 Senate vote on Sunday.
  Gov. Tate Reeves, who previously expressed resistance to lawmakers changing the flag, said that he would sign the bill if it came across his desk.
  “The argument over the 1894 flag has become as divisive as the flag itself and it’s time to end it,"   Saturday morning. "If they send me a bill this weekend, I will sign it.”
  The   served as an extension of the voices of Black people protesting in the streets about the inequalities Black people face daily.
  Sunday’s show, a virtual event because of the coronavirus pandemic, featured a number of highly produced, well-crafted and pre-taped performances in which artists used their performances to highlight the Black Lives Matter movement, civil rights and the lives of those lost because of police officers, including George Floyd.
  Beyonce accepted a humanitarian award during the BET Awards, telling viewers during her speech to vote “like our life depends on it" in the upcoming election.
  Your baby isn't colorblind — pretending they are won't make them less racist, Dr. May Ling Halim and Dr. Sarah Gaither  
  
  —  
  Milan is a fast-changing, fashionable and lively Italian city.
  But it's also long been one of the most polluted cities in Europe. As residents of Milan grapple with the coronavirus pandemic, some are asking if the city can use this opportunity to build a greener future.
  Check out the next episode in our series  
  Thanks for reading the Morning Rundown.
  If you have any comments — likes, dislikes — drop me an email at: petra@nbcuni.com
  If you'd like to receive this newsletter in your inbox Monday to Friday, please sign-up  
  Thanks, Petra Cahill
  Petra Cahill is a senior editor and writer for NBC News Digital. She writes NBC News' Morning Rundown newsletter. 
 