President Trump likes to make the far-fetched claim that he has done more for Black Americans  than any president since Abraham Lincoln . But many Black leaders who have tried to work with him tell a different story — that  he is more interested in photo ops than substantive interactions .
  Often the president has turned opportunities for reconciliation, or even to debate policy differences, into empty-calorie encounters in front of the cameras, according to interviews with more than 30 Black officials, civil rights leaders, and former and current administration officials.
  The pattern, they said, established itself even before he took office. On Martin Luther King’s Birthday in January 2017, President-elect Trump welcomed civil rights leaders, led by Dr. King’s eldest son, to Trump Tower to discuss a proposal intended to prevent state voter identification laws from disenfranchising people of color.
  The delegation had low expectations, and even those were quickly dashed:
  “Many people didn’t go out — many Blacks didn’t go out — to vote for Hillary because they liked me. That was almost as good as getting their vote,” Mr. Trump said, lowering his voice to say the word “Blacks,” on a recording provided by a meeting participant and confirmed as authentic by three others.
  As the 2020 campaign heads toward the homestretch, Mr. Trump is embracing the same split-screen approach he has used for years: He talks up friendships with Black Americans — and at last month’s Republican convention,  featured glowing testimonies from Black supporters  — while running a campaign that tries  to frighten white suburban voters  into thinking a Biden presidency will bring problems from inner-city America to their front lawns.
  The manifestation of this strategy is the photo op.
  Mr. Trump is so well known for attempting to draw Black officials into the frame with him that members of the Congressional Black Caucus who met with him at the White House in 2017 kept away from his favorite snapshot spot, the Resolute Desk.
  “I know his type,” said Representative James Clyburn, Democrat of South Carolina, who was in the room. “He has been as caustic as he can be. Trump insults in public and then makes a private phone call to you to say that is really not what he meant. I have been around those kind of white people all my life.”
 