WASHINGTON – New York Mayor  Bill de Blasio  said President Donald Trump “seems to enjoy stabbing his home town in the back” after Trump dismissed interest in bailing out Democratic states, such as New York.
  In a tweet on Monday morning, the president asked: "Why should the people and taxpayers of America be bailing out poorly run states (like Illinois, as example) and cities, in all cases Democrat run and managed, when most of the other states are not looking for bailout help? I am open to discussing anything, but just asking?"
  He also tweeted Tuesday that, "Well run States should not be bailing out poorly run States, using CoronaVirus as the excuse!"
  More: HHS official Rick Bright says he was ousted after raising concern about coronavirus drug Trump had touted 
  In an interview with the New York Post on Tuesday,  Trump elaborated that he believes "Congress is inclined to do a lot of things but I don’t think they’re inclined to do bailouts.”
  The president said that the states that need financial help shouldn't get cash partially because they have Democratic leaders, saying, “It’s not fair to the Republicans because all the states that need help – they’re run by Democrats in every case,” continuing to list New York and California in addition to Illinois.  
  De Blasio, at a press briefing Tuesday, waved the New York Post's front page, and said, “The President of the United States – a former New Yorker who seems to enjoy stabbing his home town in the back – [is] talking about no bailout for New York.”
  More: Trump may wind down work of coronavirus task force as early as this month, Pence says 
  “What kind of human being sees the suffering here and decides that people in New York City don’t deserve help? What kind of person does that?” the former 2020 Democratic candidate asked. 
  New York state, the epicenter of the outbreak in the United States, has been ravaged by coronavirus,  with at least  326,606 cases and 25,028 deaths, so far. 
  Around 21% of working New Yorkers are expected to be unemployed by the end of June, and tax revenues are expected to fall over the current and coming fiscal years by $7.4 billion, which would leave an $8.7 billion budget gap through summer of 2021, New York City Comptroller  Scott Stringer said Tuesday. 
  More: Feds arrest 2 men in first fraud case involving PPP loan program for small businesses hurt by coronavirus 
  “Who cares who runs the states? The people need help. They’re Americans who need help right now,” de Blasio said, disputing that essential workers shouldn't be devalued just because they live in blue states. “Does that make them less American in your view, Mr. President?”
  New York Gov.  Andrew Cuomo echoed  this, also taking issue with the word "bailout" on Tuesday, and saying it's not just a "blue state issue."
  "Because of the coronavirus, we need financial help in restarting the economy, and that's what we're asking for from the federal government," Cuomo said. "How do you call that a bailout? Which is such a loaded word. Such a rhetorical, hyperbolic word."
  More: Trump downplays report forecasting 3,000 coronavirus deaths a day by June 1 
  Both  de Blasio and Cuomo  have dangled massive proposed budget cuts if help from the federal government doesn't come.  
  Congress has been in contention regarding federal funding for states as it prepares for a fourth coronavirus aid package. 
  Coronavirus:  McConnell says he supports states using 'bankruptcy route' over federal assistance 
  “Anyone watching and seeing the pain New York City has experienced, anyone watching and seeing the heroism of so many New Yorkers, anyone watching with a heart and soul would say I want to help those people," de Blasio said.
  “I’ll give him (Trump) another chance to show that there’s a beating heart there, but these comments today show me something very cold.” he said of Trump. 
 