The death toll from the new coronavirus reached 50,000 in the U.S., now the epicenter of the global outbreak. The World Health Organization formed an international alliance to ensure that Covid-19 vaccines and treatments are distributed fairly.
  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration warned patients about taking malaria medications touted by President Donald Trump. The president now claims he was being sarcastic on Thursday when he suggested that injecting disinfectants might ward off the coronavirus.
  Spain and Italy had their fewest deaths in five weeks, and new cases in Singapore dropped below 1,000 for the first time in five days. Russia reported the most new cases since April 19, and Germany had its worst day in almost a week.
  Key Developments
  • Virus Tracker: Cases top 2.7 million; deaths exceed 195,000
  • Trump riff on disinfectant shows peril of improvised briefings
  • Pence says outbreak could be over by Memorial Day
  • Global meat shortages loom as plants shut down
  • Europe’s slowing deaths a welcoming sign for leaders eager to reopen
  • Gym, salon customers defy virus in first state to ease lockdown
  Subscribe to a daily update on the virus from Bloomberg’s Prognosis team here. Click VRUS on the terminal for news and data on the coronavirus. For a look back at this week’s top stories from QuickTake, click here.
  Dyson Says U.K. No Longer Needs Its Ventilators (6:44 a.m. HK)
  The company owned by billionaire James Dyson won’t supply the U.K. government with medical ventilators it was developing because they’re no longer required.
  Dyson Ltd. had spent 20 million pounds ($25 million) on the project and won’t be seeking any government money to pay for it, the founder said in a statement. The company didn’t explain why the order, which it said last month was for 10,000 units of a prototype ventilator called the CoVent, was canceled.
  Florida Expands Testing (5:30 p.m. NY)
  Florida Governor Ron DeSantis said he is directing the state’s surgeon general to allow pharmacists to order and administer Covid-19 tests, explaining that testing will be critical to safely reopening.
  Speaking at a press conference Friday afternoon in Tallahassee, DeSantis declined to say when he expected to move into the next phase of reopening. His Re-Open Florida Task Force just finished a week of meetings on how the state should proceed.
  DeSantis also described his efforts to acquire serological tests that indicate whether people have Covid-19 antibodies. He said he expects 200,000 tests as soon as Friday; hundreds of thousands more are on order.
  Belgium to Ease Lockdown in May (5:15 p.m. NY)
  Belgium will start relaxing the lockdown measures on its citizens and companies, now in their sixth week, with a plan to progressively reopen businesses in the first half of May as Prime Minister Sophie Wilmes warned the timing will be fully dependent on the strength of the epidemic.
  “We have never before tried out an exit strategy like this,” Wilmes said at a briefing in Brussels late Friday. “Nothing will be carved in marble, especially not the target dates.”
  Companies with business-to-business operations and industrial activities reopen May 4, to be followed a week later by retailers and all companies with a business-to-consumer focus, except those that can’t possibly avoid physical contact such as hairdressers. Schools will progressively open for students ages 6 to 18 from May 18, split by age groups, and masks will be mandatory age 12 and up, as well as in public transportation starting May 4. Bars and restaurants will have to remain closed until at least June 8, and leisurely cross-border travel will stay banned before that date.
  Belgium’s health system has been able to keep more than 4 out of 10 intensive care unit beds vacant at the peak of the outbreak more than two weeks ago. The death toll in the country of 11.4 million stands at 6,679, with more than half occurring in senior-care homes. But the restrictions on social contacts have a crippling effect, with a third of the Belgian economy at a standstill.
  Small Business Relief Resumes Monday (4:40 p.m. NY)
  The U.S. Small Business Administration will restart a government coronavirus relief loan program for small businesses Monday morning with an additional $320 billion, after the first round of funding was exhausted in just 13 days.
  “We encourage all approved lenders to process loan applications previously submitted by eligible borrowers and disburse funds expeditiously,” Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and SBA Administrator Jovita Carranza said in a joint statement.
  Many small business owners were shut out from financial aid after the Paycheck Protection Program, launched April 3 with an initial $349 billion, was depleted in less than two weeks. Congress passed a relief bill that President Donald Trump signed Friday with more funding for the program and a separate disaster loan and grant initiative whose funding also expired last week.
  The initial program launch was rocky, after guidance for lenders to process loans wasn’t issued until the night before and some large banks didn’t participate initially or only took applications from customers with existing loan accounts. The SBA’s processing system was inaccessible at times because of the volume of applications.
  U.S. Cases Rise 3.5% (4 p.m. NY)
  U.S. cases rose 3.5% from the day before to 886,213, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University and Bloomberg News. That was higher than Thursday’s growth rate of 2.5% but below the average daily increase of 3.8% of the past week. Deaths reported over the past 24 hours rose 7.4% to 50,780.
  • New York’s cases rose 0.7%, according to the Johns Hopkins and Bloomberg News data.
  • New Jersey reported 3,047 new cases, pushing its total past 100,000, according to the state’s health department. Deaths increased by 253, to 5,617.
  • Texas cases rose to 22,806, up 3.9% from Thursday, according to the state’s Health and Human Services division. The 862 new cases represented the first daily decline this week.
  • Florida reported 30,174 cases on Friday, up 4.7% from a day earlier, according to the state’s health department. Deaths among Florida residents reached 1,012, an increase of 5.4%. The increase in cases marked a slight acceleration over upticks in previous days.
  • Nebraska had the biggest daily increase in cases, which rose 21.5% to 2,202, according to the Bloomberg News and Johns Hopkins data.
  Europe Deaths Fall (3:15 p.m. NY)
  Italy and France reported the fewest coronavirus deaths in weeks and Germany’s sick beds continued to empty, providing welcome signs for European leaders ahead of wider steps to restart the economy.
  Spain, which has the most cases in Europe and remains on an almost-total lockdown, reported 367 new deaths on Friday, the least since March 21, though confirmed cases rose by the most in almost three weeks. Italy’s daily death toll was the lowest since March 17 and France’s declined to the lowest in almost four weeks.
  With European governments eager to ease confinement measures that have crushed the economy, the latest data also hinted at the volatility that makes relaxing restrictions difficult. Italy’s new cases reported on Friday outstripped the number of recovered patients, reversing a trend begun the day before.
  “We have to maintain our vigilance,” Jerome Salomon, France’s director general for health, said at a briefing. “The epidemic is not over.”
  In Germany, about 103,000 of some 148,000 people reported to have contracted the virus have recovered. Europe’s largest economy kept its so-called reproduction number below 1, according to official data, meaning the number of new Covid-19 infections is declining.
  Cuomo Dares McConnell On State Bankruptcies (2 p.m. NY)
  New York Governor Andrew Cuomo dared U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to pass a bill allowing states to seek bankruptcy, saying it would suggest to the stock market and other countries that the economy is flailing.
  “You want to send a signal to the markets that this nation is in real trouble? You want to send an international message the economy is in trouble? Do that,” Cuomo, a Democrat, said Friday.
  McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, has suggested that states could pursue bankruptcy as an alternative to federal stimulus, as a way to ease fiscal crises caused by virus stay-at-home orders.
  For more articles like this, please visit us at  bloomberg.com 
  ©2020 Bloomberg L.P.
 