Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox.  Sign up here .
  Some of  President Trump's  critics and opponents seem almost "impervious" to any  good news  during the  coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic ,  Dr. Bill Bennett  said Wednesday.
  Appearing on  "America's Newsroom"  with host Ed Henry, Bennett said that he was reminded of a  book  by  American theologian Reinhold Niebuhr  called "The Children of Light and the Children of Darkness: A Vindication of Democracy and a Critique of Its Traditional Defense."
  CLICK HERE FOR FULL CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE 
  "The children of light see everything optimistically, everything's going to turn out fine," Bennett explained. "The children of darkness see everything is never going to turn out fine; it's all going to be awful."
  Bennett advised that, unlike the children of light and children of darkness, Americans need to have a balanced view of the current state of our nation.
  "It seems to me the president has a balanced view," he added.
  President Trump received backlash from his critics  after calling himself a "wartime president"  last week and  telling Fox News hosts at a virtual town hall Tuesday  that he didn't want the cure for COVID-19 to be  "worse than the problem itself."   He went on to list ways  that a crumbling  economy  could also destroy a country.
  Additionally, Trump said he  hoped to reopen American businesses by Easter Sunday .
  Even before the deadly  virus  tightened its grip on the United States – specifically  New York ,  Washington  and  California  –  scientists  were desperately searching for a solution and a vaccine.
  On Tuesday, Vice President  Mike Pence  said that “the FDA [Food and Drug Administration] is  approving off-label use for the [anti-malarial drug] hydroxychloroquine  right now" to help infected patients.
  Physicians have told Fox News  that trials of the  drug  have shown positive results so far, and during a news conference on Sunday, New York Gov.  Andrew Cuomo  announced that the Empire State has acquired 70,000 doses of hydroxychloroquine, 10,000 doses of the antibiotic zithromax and 750,000 doses of chloroquine. Trials were set to start on Tuesday.
  "Some people are absolutely impervious to good news. There is some good news coming out of these fronts," Bennett remarked.
  "Look, the testing is now at a massive level, Ed. We have tested more people than  South Korea , which is the model. The mortality rate is holding at a very low level...There is hope for things like hydroxychloroquine, which has proved to be successful in some cases. And, the president is pointing us toward  Easter  and reminding us that it's a big country."
  While New York admittedly has a "terrible problem," Bennett told Henry, "a lot of the rest of the country probably can go back to work sooner. And, we need to be ready to do that."
  "And, I think what the president is doing – the aspiration about Easter, but the care and caution about protecting those most vulnerable and attention to the places that have the most problems like New York – is, I think, the right thing," Bennett concluded.
  "But let's be balanced," he urged. "Let's not be impervious to good news like the  Senate  actually acting and passing something and  the market going up . This is good news -- not just  financially , but good for Americans and their morale."
  CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP 
  Early Wednesday morning,  Senate Democrats  and  Republicans  reached a  historic $2 trillion deal , capping days of heated negotiations that had nearly been derailed by last-minute demands from  House Democrats .
  The unprecedented  economic  rescue package would give direct payments to most Americans, expand unemployment benefits and provide a $367 billion program for  small businesses  to keep making payroll while  workers  are forced to stay home.
  Fox News' Gregg Re, Chad Pergram, Caroline McKee, and John Roberts, as well as The Associated Press, contributed to this report. 
 