President Trump has made a  series of rosy — and sometimes false — claims  about the coronavirus, including the risks to Americans and how his administration is responding.
  Here is a timeline of some of his comments, placed in context and fact-checked.
  Mr. Trump  tweeted : “China has been working very hard to contain the Coronavirus. The United States greatly appreciates their efforts and transparency. It will all work out well. In particular, on behalf of the American People, I want to thank President Xi!” 
  While the Chinese response to the coronavirus was more transparent than during the SARS outbreak nearly two decades earlier, it was not a model of open communication. The government continued to  censor criticism  and suppress information. A Chinese doctor who tried to warn his medical school classmates about the virus in December was detained by authorities for questioning. He was infected with the virus and  died  two weeks after Mr. Trump’s tweet.
  Mr. Trump  tweeted : “Just received a briefing on the Coronavirus in China from all of our GREAT agencies, who are also working closely with China. We will continue to monitor the ongoing developments. We have the best experts anywhere in the world, and they are on top of it 24/7!” 
  Mr. Trump  spoke with the Fox News personality Sean Hannity : “We pretty much shut it down coming in from China,”  Mr. Trump said of the coronavirus.  “But we can’t have thousands of people coming in who may have this problem, the coronavirus. So, we’re going to see what happens, but we did shut it down, yes.” 
  Mr. Trump addressed the National Border Patrol Council: “And 61 percent of the voters approve of Trump’s handling of the coronavirus. And, you know, we did a very early move on that. We did a — I was criticized by a lot of people at the beginning because we were the first. We’d never done it before.” He also offered an optimistic prediction: “There’s a theory that, in April, when it gets warm — historically, that has been able to kill the virus. So we don’t know yet; we’re not sure yet.” 
  Warmer weather does not “kill” the seasonal flu, but slows its transmission. It’s unclear if this will hold true for coronavirus infections, which have similar symptoms to the flu but are caused by a different virus. Dr. Robert Redfield, the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, also contradicted Mr. Trump’s theory a day earlier,  telling CNN  that “this virus is probably with us beyond this season, beyond this year.”
  Mr. Trump  tweeted : “The Coronavirus is very much under control in the USA. We are in contact with everyone and all relevant countries. CDC & World Health have been working hard and very smart. Stock Market starting to look very good to me!” 
  Mr. Trump, visiting India,  tweeted : “Cryin’ Chuck Schumer is complaining, for publicity purposes only, that I should be asking for more money than $2.5 Billion to prepare for Coronavirus. If I asked for more he would say it is too much. He didn’t like my early travel closings. I was right. He is incompetent!” 
  In two  other   posts , he also said: “CDC and my Administration are doing a GREAT job of handling Coronavirus, including the very early closing of our borders to certain areas of the world. It was opposed by the Dems, ‘too soon’, but turned out to be the correct decision. No matter how well we do, however, the Democrats talking point is that we are doing badly. If the virus disappeared tomorrow, they would say we did a really poor, and even incompetent, job. Not fair, but it is what it is. So far, by the way, we have not had one death. Let’s keep it that way!” 
  At a news conference, Mr. Trump was asked about his previous criticisms of the Obama administration’s handling of Ebola in 2014. He responded:  “At that time, nobody had ever even heard of Ebola or ever conceived of something where you basically — the people would disintegrate. And we’re still working on Ebola.” He went on saying, “The level of death with Ebola — you know, at the time, it was a virtual hundred percent.” 
  This was exaggerated . Ebola got its name from a 1976 outbreak. The average fatality rate is  around 50 percent , but has ranged from 27 percent in Sierra Leone during the 2014 to 2016 outbreak to 88 percent in the Democratic Republic of Congo in 1976. Ebola is spread through direct contact with the bodily fluids of an infected person, while the coronavirus can be transmitted more easily, through close contact or droplets from sneezes and coughs.
  At a  news conference at the White House , Mr. Trump addressed Democratic criticism of his response: “We should all be working together,”  he said. He added:  “All they’re trying to do is get a political advantage. This isn’t about political advantage. We’re all trying to do the right thing. They shouldn’t be saying: ‘This is terrible. President Trump isn’t asking for enough money.’ How stupid a thing to say. If they want to give us more money, that’s OK.” 
  The president responded to whether U.S. schools should prepare for the virus: “I think every aspect of our society should be prepared. I don’t think it’s going to come to that, especially with the fact that we’re going down, not up. We’re going very substantially down, not up. But, yeah, I think schools should be preparing and, you know, get ready just in case.” He added: “We have it so well under control. I mean, we really have done a very good job.” 
  His claim about cases “going very substantially down” was  false  and contradicted what the secretary of health and human services and a top official from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention had said moments earlier in the same news conference: that they expected “more cases.”
  Mr. Trump  tweeted : “Congratulations and thank you to our great Vice President & all of the many professionals doing such a fine job at CDC & all other agencies on the Coronavirus situation. Only a very small number in U.S., & China numbers look to be going down. All countries working well together!” 
  Mr. Trump  tweeted : “So, the Coronavirus, which started in China and spread to various countries throughout the world, but very slowly in the U.S. because President Trump closed our border, and ended flights, VERY EARLY, is now being blamed, by the Do Nothing Democrats, to be the fault of ‘Trump’.” 
  He also  tweeted : “The Do Nothing Democrats were busy wasting time on the Immigration Hoax, & anything else they could do to make the Republican Party look bad, while I was busy calling early BORDER & FLIGHT closings, putting us way ahead in our battle with Coronavirus. Dems called it VERY wrong!” 
  At a  rally in Charlotte, N.C. : “We had a great meeting today with a lot of the great companies, and they’re going to have vaccines, I think, relatively soon. And they’re going to have something that makes you better, and that’s going to actually take place we think even sooner.” 
  This was misleading.  According to Mr. Trump’s own health care experts and pharmaceutical executives, whom he had met with hours earlier, a vaccine may be available for widespread use in about a year to 18 months.
  He also made this reassurance:  “The United States is right now ranked by far No. 1 in the world for preparedness.” 
  This was exaggerated.  The United States did rank No. 1 out of 195 countries in  the Global Health Security Index  overall and first in four of six criteria. But the index also warned that “no country is fully prepared for epidemics or pandemics.” And it noted a specific weakness of the United States as well: lack of universal access to health care and high out-of-pocket costs.
  The president also compared the coronavirus to the flu:  “From 27,000 to 70,000 people get infected, and many people die. Think of it, 27,000. You lose 27,000 people to the common flu.” 
  This is misleading.  The figures are  largely accurate  but obscure some notable differences. The coronavirus seems  more deadly  than most strains of the flu, and while there are widely available treatments and vaccines for the flu, none are ready yet for the coronavirus.
  Mr. Trump said to reporters: “There’s only one hot spot, and that’s also pretty much in a very — in a home, as you know, in a nursing home.” 
  This is understated.  The definition of a disease “hot spot” is imprecise, but there had been more clusters of coronavirus in the United States than Mr. Trump suggested. The relative paucity of tests may also have obscured the number of cases and their locations. A week earlier, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has also reported  “community spread of the virus”  in two places in California and in Oregon, in addition to the long-term care facility in suburban Seattle cited by Mr. Trump. And New York announced a second case hours after Mr. Trump spoke.
  In a White House meeting: “The Obama administration made a decision on testing and that turned out to be very detrimental to what we’re doing, and we undid that decision a few days ago.” 
  This was misleading.  Mr. Trump was likely referring to “draft guidance” issued in 2014 that extended the Food and Drug Administration’s authority to  regulate laboratory-developed tests , but that was  never finalized  or enforceable. A law enacted in 2004 created the process and requirements for receiving authorization to use unapproved testing products in health emergencies. The agency had announced four days earlier that it would permit unapproved tests for 15 days while developers are preparing their emergency authorization request, but it did not “undo” any regulations or laws.
  Later, in an interview with Mr. Hannity, the president cast doubt on the rate of death reported by the World Health Organization: “Well, I think the 3.4 percent is really a false number. Now, this is just my hunch, and — but based on a lot of conversations with a lot of people that do this, because a lot of people will have this, and it’s very mild. … So, if we have thousands or hundreds of thousands of people that get better just by, you know, sitting around and even going to work — some of them go to work, but they get better.” 
  The 3.4 percent refers to the rate of deaths among  reported  cases of coronavirus, so Mr. Trump has a point that it may not include milder cases. Dr. Bruce Aylward, who is leading the World Health Organization’s coronavirus efforts,  estimated  an ultimate rate of 1 to 2 percent.
  Mr. Trump angrily rebutted criticism over his comments to Mr. Hannity on  Twitter : “I NEVER said people that are feeling sick should go to work. This is just more Fake News and disinformation put out by the Democrats, in particular MSDNC. Comcast covers the CoronaVirus situation horribly, only looking to do harm to the incredible & successful effort being made!” 
  The president also appeared in  a Fox News town hall :
  “Again, we’ve gotten the highest poll numbers of anybody for this kind of thing.” 
  This is misleading.  Mr. Trump was referring to a  Gallup poll  in which 77 percent of respondents said they were confident in the government’s ability to handle a coronavirus outbreak — which was higher than in the past four outbreaks. But that poll was conducted in early February, before deaths and community spread were reported in the United States.
  He also touted his own early actions: “One of the things I did is I closed down the borders to China and to other areas that are very badly affected and really having a lot of troubles — I mean, countries and areas of countries that have had a lot of problems. And I closed them down very early, against the advice of almost everybody, and we’ve been given rave reviews.” 
  This is exaggerated.  At the time of Mr. Trump’s claim, the United States had barred entry by foreign nationals who had traveled in China and Iran. (Most countries in Europe were added to the list on March 11.) But those restrictions did not apply to American citizens, permanent residents, or the immediate families of American citizens though they were subject to screening. Contrary to Mr. Trump’s suggestion that he refused to heed bad the health and human services secretary said that the travel restrictions were  recommended by career health officials .
  And Mr. Trump continued to misleadingly blame the Obama administration for testing lapses, prompting a host to ask why he had not reversed that rule earlier. He responded: “I know. But you’re not going to be — I’m thinking about a lot of other things, too like trade and millions of other things. I mean, we are doing some job with the economy, you know, so I’m not thinking about this.” 
  As he signed the funding bill at the White House, Mr. Trump  said : “And in terms of deaths, I don’t know what the count is today. Is it 11? Eleven people? And in terms of cases, it’s very, very few.” 
  Asked if he expected more gyrations in the stock market, he responded: “No, I think — I think, you know, a lot of people are staying here and they’re going to be doing their business here. They’re going to be traveling here. … And maybe that’s one of the reasons the job numbers are so good. We’ve had a lot of travel inside the USA.” 
  Later, Mr. Trump  toured  the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta: “Anybody that needs a test can have a test. They are all set. They have them out there. In addition to that they are making millions more as we speak but as of right now and yesterday anybody that needs a test that is the important thing and the test are all perfect like the letter was perfect. The transcription was perfect, right? This was not as perfect as that but pretty good.” 
  False.  Mr. Trump’s assurances of widely available testing was contradicted by  public health officials and patients across the country , who complained that access was still limited. Members of Mr. Trump’s coronavirus task force later  clarified  that tests are available to state labs, but the tests needed to be prescribed by a doctor or health official so they were  not yet widely available  to the public. The Association of Public Health Laboratories has maintained that demand continued to outpace supply.
  He also addressed Grand Princess cruise ship that was denied entry to San Francisco and that had reported dozens of passengers with flulike symptoms: “I would rather — because I like the numbers being where they are. I don’t need to have the numbers double because of one ship. That wasn’t our fault, and it wasn’t the fault of the people on the ship, either. OK? It wasn’t their fault either. And they’re mostly Americans, so I can live either way with it. I’d rather have them stay on, personally. But I fully understand if they want to take them off. I gave them the authority to make the decision.” 
  Speaking from his Mar-a-Lago private club: “Well, we’ll have tremendous rallies. And we’re doing very well. And we’ve done a fantastic job with respect to that subject on the virus.”
  Asked whether he was concerned that the virus was getting closer to the White House and Washington D.C., the president responded: “No, I’m not concerned at all. No, I’m not. No, we’ve done a great job.” 
  More than 700 cases in the U.S. and 26 deaths. Stocks markets plunge in worst single-day in more than a decade. 
  The president  retweeted  a post from Charlie Kirk, the founder of Turning Point USA, criticizing the Obama administration’s response to the H1N1 epidemic of 2009: “This is your daily reminder that it took Barack Obama until October of 2009 to declare Swine Flu a National Health Emergency. It began in April of ’09 but Obama waited until 20,000 people in the US had been hospitalized & 1,000+ had died. Where was the media hysteria then? 
  False.  The Obama administration  declared  swine flu a public health emergency ( which gives health agencies flexibility ) on April 26, 2009, two days  before  the first reported death in the United States. Mr. Obama  declared  swine flu a national emergency (which  applies to the entire federal government  and authorizes wider ranges of assistance) in October of that year. At the time of Mr. Kirk’s post, Mr. Trump had similarly declared a public health emergency over the coronavirus but not yet a national emergency.
  On Twitter, Mr. Trump also  suggested  that the coronavirus that a border wall would be effective against the coronavirus: “Going up fast. We need the Wall more than ever!” 
  False.  According to the C.D.C. director, a border wall  would not be particularly useful  in mitigating a coronavirus outbreak. At the time of Mr. Trump’s tweet, there were  seven confirmed cases in Mexico , according to the W.H.O.
  Mr. Trump  tweeted : “Our CoronaVirus Team has been doing a great job. Even Democrat governors have been VERY complimentary!” 
  After a lunch with Senate Republicans, Mr. Trump again compared the coronavirus to the flu and again blamed Mr. Obama: “No, I think the U.S. has done a very good job on testing. We had to change things that were done that were nobody’s fault, perhaps, they wanted to do something a different way, but it was a much slower process from a previous administration and we did change them.” 
  Mr. Trump lashed out at Democrats and the media in  Twitter  posts, while thanking his coronavirus task force: “Someone needs to tell the Democrats in Congress that CoronaVirus doesn’t care what party you are in. We need to protect ALL Americans!” 
  “Vanity Fair Magazine, which will soon be out of business, and their third rate Fake reporters, who make up sources which don’t exist, wrote yet another phony & boring hit piece. The facts are just the opposite. Our team is doing a great job with CoronaVirus!” 
  The president addressed the nation from the Oval Office:  “To keep new cases from entering our shores, we will be suspending all travel from Europe to the United States for the next 30 days. These restrictions will be adjusted subject to conditions on the ground. There will be exemptions for Americans who have undergone appropriate screenings, and these prohibitions will not only apply to the tremendous amount of trade and cargo, but various other things as we get approval.”  
  Like the travel restrictions imposed on China and Iran, the restrictions on 26 European countries apply to foreign nationals, but not to American citizens, their immediate families or green card holders. Mr. Trump also misspoke when he said that the restrictions would also encompass goods (he later  clarified  that they only apply to people). 
  He also said: “Earlier this week, I met with the leaders of health insurance industry who have agreed to waive all co-payments for coronavirus treatments, extend insurance coverage to these treatments, and to prevent surprise medical billing.”  
  This is exaggerated.  Insurers have agreed to waive co-payments for coronavirus  testing,  but not treatment,   according to  America’s Health Insurance Plans, a trade association in Washington. Several insurers also stipulated that “self-insured” plans — under which employers assume the financial risks themselves and pay out of pocket rather than a premium — could opt to not cover the costs. The Kaiser Family Foundations estimated that  60 percent of workers  were fully or partially enrolled in these plans in 2019. 
  
 