Theories have circulated that the government’s system for counting COVID-19 deaths causes inflation in the total number of deaths.  
  At issue in many cases is the  federal guidance  for those filling out death certificates. The guidance specifies: “COVID-19 should be reported on the death certificate for all decedents where the disease caused or is assumed to have caused or contributed to the death.” 
  Some have interpreted that to mean that deaths will be reported as related to COVID-19 when a person has actually died from something else. 
  On April 8, Dr. Scott Jensen, a Republican state senator and Minnesota family physician,  said on Fox News’ “The Ingraham Angle”  that the method of gathering statistics could be “misleading.”
  “The idea that we’re going to allow people to massage and sort of game the numbers is a real issue because we’re going to undermine the (public) trust,” he said.  
  As reported by Forbes , the theory that the U.S. death toll is too high has been espoused on Fox News by talk show host Tucker Carlson, analyst Brit Hume and anchor Harris Faulker.  
  Claims involving inflated death counts also circulated widely on social media.   
  On the talk show “Louder with Crowder,” host and commentator Steven Crowder  claimed the Centers for Disease Control guidelines  could throw off the modeling. He noted the same criteria aren’t applied to infection rates because someone must test positive to be counted as having the virus. The video, posted to Facebook April 10, had more than 1,800 shares as of Thursday afternoon.   
  “Do you not think for a second that some leftist activist who also happens to work in a hospital in New York is not going to take every single opportunity possible to try and label this a COVID-19 death, if they are not required to actually show any proof of a positive test?” he said. 
  An  April 4 commentary article in the Western Journal  titled “CDC tells hospitals to list COVID as cause of death even if you're just assuming or it only contributed” asked how those requirements would affect patients who have several underlying conditions, or those whose symptoms are close to influenza. One user’s Facebook post that shared the article had more than 500 shares.
  "There's no doubt that this guidance will inflate the numbers, the only question is how drastically," the article said.  
  Meanwhile, misinformation about runaway COVID-19 death reporting has spread widely. Last week,  FactCheck.org debunked other viral Facebook posts  that claimed "anyone who didn’t die by a gunshot wound or a car accident” is being listed as a COVID-19 death.  
  As of Thursday afternoon, the CDC had  counted 22,871 confirmed deaths due to COVID-19 , the respiratory disease that results from the novel coronavirus, and 4,141 probable deaths.
  Cases in which a person died from complications of COVID-19, had been tested and was under hospital surveillance are simpler to categorize than other situations, such as when an untested person dies at home and post-mortem testing isn't available.
  Guidelines for certifying deaths , published April 3 by the National Center for Health Statistics, instruct hospital staff, medical examiners and other officials responsible for certifying an underlying cause of death to use any available information, such as a person’s medical history, medical records, lab tests and any autopsies.
  As the nation faces a shortage of COVID-19 testing, compounded by issues with false negatives in testing and people dying in their homes without positive tests, the National Center for Health Statistics has also established guidelines for certification when testing is not available.
  COVID-19 can be reported as a “probable” or a “presumed” underlying cause of death when there can’t be a definite diagnosis. But health professionals must ensure the cause is “suspected or likely” and within “a reasonable degree of certainty" that the virus is responsible. Certifiers should use “their best clinical judgment” and test whenever possible, the guidance says.   
  On Tuesday, the CDC changed the way it will publish death counts for COVID-19 to include "probable" deaths that may not have a confirmed laboratory test.
  Probable deaths must meet criteria based on a combination of epidemiological evidence, clinical evidence and presumptive laboratory testing, or vital records criteria. 
  Meanwhile, the count of "confirmed" deaths is reserved for those backed up by laboratory evidence,  the CDC's website states . 
  However, just because a person has tested positive for COVID-19 doesn’t mean his or her death will be automatically ruled as stemming from the disease, said Dr. Sally Aiken, president of the  National Association of Medical Examiners .   
  For instance, if a woman ingested something poisonous to take her own life and also had tested positive for the disease, her death would not be attributed to the virus.
  “If we determine it to be a suicidal ingestion, we would certify the death as an intoxication/suicide,” she said in an email. “COVID would not be on the death certificate.”    
  The CDC's changes come as experts say statistics confirmed by positive tests haven't been capturing the full picture of the COVID-19 death toll.  
  In New York City, the death toll  increased by more than 3,700 victims on Tuesday  after officials revised counts to include people who were presumed to have had the virus even though the patients never tested positive.  
  Dr. Jason Farley, a professor of nursing and a nurse practitioner in the division of infectious diseases the  Johns Hopkins University schools of nursing and medicine , said New York's example shows the overall number of COVID-19 deaths is likely an undercount, not an overcount.
  But he said death statistics reported for hospitalized patients are likely very solid. It's harder to get a handle, however, on the number of people who have died at home of COVID-19 without a positive test, he said.
  When people have underlying conditions in addition to COVID-19, physicians will make their best judgment call when declaring the underlying cause of death, he said.
  "I think it’s just critical that we understand that clinicians are not sitting there going, 'How can I make this a COVID case when I’m filling out this report?'” he said. "Seeing these patients myself at the hospital at Johns Hopkins, you know who needs oxygen. You know who needs mechanical ventilation.” 
  Dr. Deborah Birx, coordinator of the White House coronavirus task force,  said during an April 8 White House coronavirus briefing  that many who succumb to the virus do have other underlying conditions. But that doesn’t mean that they aren’t dying from COVID-19.    
  "Those individuals will have an underlying condition, but that underlying condition did not cause their acute death when it’s related to a COVID infection," Birx said. "In fact, it’s the opposite. Having an underlying condition and getting this virus, we know is particularly damaging to those individuals."  
  Dr. Anthony Fauci, the director of the  National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases , also has pushed back against what he called “conspiracy theories” that the U.S. is overcounting the coronavirus death toll. On April 9, he  said on NBC’s "Today" show  that there’s “absolutely no evidence that that’s the case.”    
  “I think the deaths that we’re seeing are coronavirus deaths, and the other deaths are not being counted as coronavirus deaths,” he said.  
  The United States is still getting a handle on how many people are dying of COVID-19. Recent changes in guidance by the CDC are meant to provide a more accurate representation of the count.
  Experts say that COVID-19 deaths are likely not being overinflated. That list includes by Dr. Anthony Fauci, who is leading the U.S. response to the coronavirus. 
  Instead, many experts say the nation is likely amid an undercount of the death toll due to the disease due to factors like false negatives on tests, a lack of testing and people who have died in their homes without receiving a positive test. 
  We, at the USA TODAY Network, are part of Facebook’s third-party fact-checking program. Facebook works with independent fact-checking organizations around the world that are certified by the International Fact-Checking Network (IFCN). We review and rate the veracity of articles, images, videos and text posts, focused on claims that are spreading virally. 
  Ian Richardson covers the Iowa Statehouse for the Des Moines Register. Reach him at  irichardson@registermedia.com , at 515-284-8254, or on Twitter at  @DMRIanR . 
  Your subscription makes work like this possible. Subscribe today at  DesMoinesRegister.com/Deal . 
 