When President Trump said on March 6 that anyone who wanted a  coronavirus  test could get one, it was immediately questionable.
  Contamination  had  delayed  an effective coronavirus test from the federal government for weeks. Hospitals were  required to obtain approval from the Food and Drug Administration  to develop coronavirus tests  nearly a month  after the United States declared a public health emergency. The day before Trump’s remarks, Vice President Pence  said there were not enough tests  to meet the anticipated demand.
  On Tuesday, the United States’ top infectious disease expert, Anthony S. Fauci, illustrated again how far off Trump’s March 6 claim was. Fauci was asked on CNN when everyone who needs a test will be able to get one.
  “Hopefully, we should see that as we get towards the end of May, the beginning of June,” Fauci said. “That’s what I’m being told by the people who are responsible for the testing. I take them for their word.”
  Even as Trump has continued to tout U.S. testing, the United States has  lagged behind  many countries, and reported testing availability has  lagged far behind  completed tests. Nearly one-third of governors have said  they lack sufficient coronavirus testing supplies  needed to reopen their states.
  On Saturday, Fauci said the United States  can and should double  the current number of coronavirus tests it is performing. Other  public health experts  have said the United States needs to  at least triple  current testing and have said the  lack of widespread testing  and tracing could lead to  second  or  third waves  of the coronavirus.  Economists have said  reopening the economy too soon could  hurt economic growth more in the long term  than reduced growth in the short term due to stay-at-home orders.
  Amid ongoing testing issues, Trump has  repeatedly shifted his public assurances . After saying anyone who wanted a test could get one, Trump  pivoted to blaming  states and the Obama administration. By April 10, Trump was  downplaying the need for widespread testing  only to pivot again earlier this week.
  “We’re going with maximum testing, because it’s something we’re very capable of doing,” Trump said during a coronavirus news conference on Monday. “We’re going to be much higher than doubled on testing very shortly.”
  Senior White House adviser Jared Kushner, who is  helping lead  the administration’s coronavirus response, did not dispute Fauci’s testing timeline on Wednesday.
  “Somebody asked me why it took so long; I actually said you should look at how did we do this so quickly,” Kushner  said of testing  on Wednesday. “We don’t want to let Dr. Fauci down, and we will make sure that we get enough tests into the markets so that we can responsibly test people.”
  Less than 24 hours after saying the United States would double existing testing “very soon,” Trump pivoted again and said the country would soon increase testing to 5 million per day.
  “We’re going to be there very soon,” Trump  said on Tuesday when asked  if the United States will start completing 5 million tests per day. “If you look at the numbers, it could be that we’re getting very close.”
  In April, the United States completed fewer than 200,000 tests per day on all but six days, according to  data from the COVID Tracking Project . The United States did not complete a total of 5 million tests until Saturday, over three months after the first confirmed case of the coronavirus in the United States.
  By Wednesday, Trump had  pivoted to denying  that he said the nation would “soon” be completing 5 million tests per day.
  “Do I think we will? I think we will, but I never said it,” Trump said in the Oval Office on Wednesday. “We will be there, but I didn’t say it.”
 