Montgomery:  As the state settles into a stay-at-home order from the governor, the number of verified coronavirus cases continues to rise. The number of COVID-19 infections in Alabama was at 783 on Sunday, the state Department of Public Health reported. The official death count rose to four, but it wasn’t clear if any of those deaths included the five patients that Lee County Coroner Bill Harris said on Saturday had died at East Alabama Medical Center in Opelika. State health officials haven’t commented on the coroner’s statement beyond saying that its investigators are still reviewing a number of other deaths that could be virus-related. Gov. Kay Ivey’s stay-at-home order, which went into effect at 5  p.m. Saturday, closed gyms, barbershops, theaters, casinos, bookstores, department stores, clothing stores and nail salons. Grocery stores and manufacturing plants aren’t included. 
  Anchorage:  Gov. Mike Dunleavy issued orders Friday to restrict in-state travel and Alaskans’ public activities in an effort to slow the spread of the coronavirus. The orders came as the state announced the second death of an Alaska resident related to COVID-19, the disease caused by the virus. The mandates will be reevaluated April  11, state health Commissioner Adam Crum said. One bars in-state travel between communities unless it is to support critical infrastructure or for critical personal needs, such as getting essential health care or engaging in subsistence activities. Certain small communities off the road system would be allowed to adopt more restrictive measures. The other order – a social distancing mandate – aims to restrict Alaskans’ movements. Dunleavy said it’s OK for people to go outside for exercise but stressed they maintain their distance from one another. 
  Phoenix:  A woman who has been a key figure leading the state’s response to the coronavirus pandemic has resigned after complaining she was being sidelined from her role. Wendy Smith-Reeve, director of the Arizona Division of Emergency Management, submitted her resignation late last week, and it was accepted Saturday by Gov. Doug Ducey. In Smith-Reeve’s resignation letter, she cited concerns that her job had essentially been taken over by Ducey’s staff and the state health department and that her “presence and function is duplicative” during the COVID-19 pandemic. The state’s emergency operations will now be directed by Maj. Gen. Michael T. McGuire. Anthony Cox, who has served as deputy director since 2017, now is the acting director. In her resignation letter, Smith-Reeve said the governor wasn’t following the state emergency response plan, which he had approved in 2017. Arizona health officials reported Sunday that the state now has tallied at least 919 COVID-19 cases and 17 deaths.
  Little Rock:  The governor signed legislation early Saturday creating a $173  million fund that he can use to respond to the coronavirus outbreak, and health officials said two more people had died from the virus in the state. Gov. Asa Hutchinson’s signature moves the state’s surplus into a new “COVID-19 Rainy Day Fund” that he can access with the approval of legislative leaders. Hutchinson signed identical bills creating the fund shortly after they were unanimously approved by the House and Senate in a midnight session. “This is a historic moment in this rotunda in which the General Assembly, both House and Senate, has come together in quick fashion to meet the emergency needs of our state,” Hutchinson said before signing the bills. The number of coronavirus deaths in Arkansas has risen by one to six, with more than 400 cases, Hutchinson and state Secretary of Health Dr. Nate Smith said Sunday. 
  Los Angeles:  Southern Californians who venture outside this week will see excellent air quality, resulting from business closures during the coronavirus pandemic and recent rain, experts said. The area’s famous freeways are empty, but the lack of cars is contributing only a small amount to the clear skies, said Philip Fine with the South Coast Air Quality District. Shipping is down in the ports of Long Beach and Los Angeles, meaning fewer trucks and cargo vessels are running. There are also fewer planes flying and more construction projects on hold. Emissions from that kind of heavy machinery accounts for nearly 80% of all greenhouse gas emissions in LA County, Fine told the Southern California News Group. Authorities are urging residents to enjoy the clear conditions in their own neighborhoods, while adhering to social distancing guidelines, as the state deals with a huge surge in coronavirus cases and tries to ramp up the health system’s ability to handle hospitalizations.
  Denver:  President Donald Trump on Saturday approved a disaster declaration for Colorado, allowing additional federal assistance for the state, tribal and local response to the coronavirus outbreak. “This declaration ensures that Colorado can be on a level playing field with other states that already have this status like New York and Washington when it comes to federal disaster funding and Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) assistance,” Gov. Jared Polis said in a news release. The number of people who have died from COVID-19 in Colorado jumped by 13 Saturday for a total of 44 deaths, while more than 2,060 people have tested positive, state public health officials said. Also, survey results released Saturday by the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment show a large majority of Coloradans are “very concerned” about COVID-19 and are taking extra precautions to keep the community healthy. Survey results also showed nearly half the respondents have had symptoms indicative of generalized anxiety over the past two weeks.
  Hartford:  A southwestern Connecticut foundation raised $1  million in pledges over the past week to help nonprofits in the county hit hardest by the coronavirus. But demand for funding grew Friday by another $863,000. Juanita James, president and CEO of Fairfield County’s Community Foundation, said she expects that requests from community organizations that help residents with basic needs, such as housing and health services, will only multiply in the coming weeks. “The homeless shelters, they can’t address the need,” James said, noting how a large concentration of the requests for grants come for community agencies that help residents with housing needs, including rental assistance so people don’t get evicted. The cost of living in Fairfield County, which borders New York, is roughly 30% higher than the national average. The foundation hopes to officially begin releasing grants to nonprofits this week. 
  New Castle:  Health officials say they have identified a second care facility in the state that has multiple COVID-19 cases. The state Department of Health and Social Services said in a news release that six residents of a memory care unit at HarborChase of Wilmington have tested positive for coronavirus and that five are hospitalized. Previously, state health officials had announced the coronavirus-related death of an 86-year-old man and six other positive cases at Little Sisters of the Poor Jeanne Jugan Residence in Newark. The health department said one more person has tested positive. Statewide, health officials  said there were 232 coronavirus cases, six deaths and 33 hospitalizations  as of Sunday afternoon.
  Washington:  A partnership between DC Health and Children’s School Services may put the district’s public school nurses on the front lines of the fight against coronavirus,  WUSA-TV reports . With schools closed through April  27, nurses who have free time are being asked to participate in direct and non-direct patient care. “School nurses are leaders in their field with specialized experience in public health nursing,” a spokesman for Children’s National Hospital said. “Never before has the need for a whole community approach been more evident as we all work collectively, across the district, to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic.” Tasks they’ll be asked to perform include telephonic contact tracing for COVID-19 positive patients; case management and remote monitoring of individuals under strict quarantine; providing support to the COVID-19 call center; and working at COVID-19 testing sites under development. 
  St. Petersburg:  The state is working to set up more highway checkpoints to deter travelers, mostly from New York, from arriving in the state and further spreading the new coronavirus. Gov. Ron DeSantis said Saturday that the screening of travelers on Interstate 95 will be similar to the measure adopted Friday on Interstate 10 to discourage travel from Louisiana, an area seeing a large spike in cases. On Interstate 10, the Florida Highway Patrol and sheriff’s deputies are setting up checkpoints to screen cars from Louisiana and require travelers to self-quarantine for 14 days. It’s not clear how the Interstate 95 screenings will be organized. The new travel restrictions follow the governor’s order Tuesday that visitors flying in from New York, New Jersey and Connecticut are to self-quarantine for two weeks under threat of a 60-day jail sentence.
  Jekyll Island:  The state’s hospital for sick and injured sea turtles is holding online lessons for children. The Georgia Sea Turtle Center on Jekyll Island has been streaming live educational videos featuring insights from its turtle experts daily since March  19. The series aims to help children keep learning while schools are closed during the coronavirus pandemic. Lessons so far have included segments on the different sea turtle species found in coastal Georgia and a virtual field trip to the marshes of Jekyll Island. Called “Scute School” after the name for the bony plates that form turtle shells, the series is being streamed on the Facebook pages of the Georgia Sea Turtle Center and Jekyll Island. New installments are scheduled through at least April  10. The sea turtle center is closed to in-person visitors because of the virus outbreak. No date has been set for it to reopen. 
  Honolulu:  A utility company has adjusted its operations and some of its services in an effort to reduce the spread of the coronavirus. The Hawaiian Electric Company announced plans to extend the suspension of service disconnections for customers another month, adding that any notices threatening to disconnect service before May  17 should be considered a scam. Service disconnections were originally suspended through April  17, KHON-TV reports. “Although Hawaiian Electric employees are considered ‘essential workers,’ the company is trying to reduce the numbers in the field to protect the health and safety of employees and the public,” the utility said in a statement. Adjusted operations include postponing less urgent repair and maintenance work and closing walk-in customer payment centers at least through April, company officials said. 
  Boise:  Gov. Brad Little on Friday ordered a 1% cut in state agency spending because of the economic downturn caused by the coronavirus. He also directed the Idaho Department of Labor to make it easier to file unemployment claims as thousands of workers have lost their jobs in recent weeks as businesses have shut down. “There’s hardly a part of the social safety net that we have that’s not having a lot of challenges,” Little said, “and we’re trying to address that.” His actions Friday followed his decision Wednesday to issue a statewide stay-at-home order as the coronavirus continues to spread. The Republican governor said the 1% cutback doesn’t apply to health care workers and will save the state about $40  million. He also ordered a $40  million transfer into emergency funds to fight the virus while the state waits for an expected $1.25  billion from the federal government. 
  Chicago:  The city is among several large American cities identified as hot spots for COVID-19 infections and will see the number of local coronavirus cases rise, U.S. Surgeon General Jerome Adams said Friday. Cases in Chicago and suburban Cook County accounted for about three-quarters of Illinois’ 3,491 total as of Saturday. Infections statewide jumped 135% from Monday to Friday, and the escalating number prompted Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot to predict that Gov. J.B. Pritzker’s stay-at-home order, scheduled to expire in just over a week, will last “deep into April.” Meanwhile, an infant with COVID-19 has died, Pritzker said Saturday. The cause of death is unknown, and an investigation is underway. A state employee also was among 13 new deaths reported Saturday, as Illinois Department of Public Health Director Dr. Ngozi Ezike urged people to do all they can to prevent the spread of the virus. “If you haven’t been paying attention, maybe this is your wake-up call,” Ezike said.
  Indianapolis:  One more state resident has died from COVID-19, bringing the total number of deaths in the state to 32, public health officials announced Sunday. There were 290 new cases, according to the Indiana State Department of Public Health. The total number of residents who’ve tested positive is 1,514, state officials said. The highest number of new cases was reported in Marion County, which had 119. After that it was Lake County with 17 and Johnson County with 15. Dr. Kristina Box, state health commissioner, said the peak of coronavirus illnesses is expected in mid- to late April. Meanwhile, the two top state officials have started working apart. Gov. Eric Holcomb and Lt. Gov. Suzanne Crouch “mutually agreed to be in different locations to socially distance themselves,” Holcomb spokeswoman Rachel Hoffmeyer said Saturday. Neither has been tested for the COVID-19 illness so far, and both have been feeling healthy, Hoffmeyer said.
  Des Moines:  An aide to Gov. Kim Reynolds said Friday that an order she issued last week to slow the spread of coronavirus had outlawed abortions in the state, but that interpretation was never explained to the organization that performs most abortions in the state and only came to light after it was released to a conservative talk radio host. The abortion decision comes amid actions to slow the spread of coronavirus and to conserve medical equipment in case a surge of cases hits hospitals in coming weeks. Reynolds spokesman Pat Garrett said Friday that the proclamation Reynolds enacted Thursday “suspends all nonessential or elective surgeries and procedures until April  16, that includes surgical abortion procedures.” Reynolds, a Republican and vocal abortion opponent, has publicly voiced her intention to find a way to end abortions in Iowa, if possible. 
  Topeka:  Leaders of the Republican-controlled Legislature agreed Sunday that Democratic Gov. Laura Kelly’s statewide stay-at-home order is necessary to help check the spread of the new coronavirus, allowing it to take effect Monday as planned. It helped Kelly’s case that the exceptions in her order for “essential” outside-the-home activities include religious worship and buying, selling and manufacturing guns and ammunition. “You always want to balance your safety with rights,” said House Speaker Ron Ryckman Jr., a Republican from Olathe in Johnson County, which has more than 100 confirmed cases. “We’re continually trying to thread a needle.” State health officials said Sunday that Kansas has 319 cases in 35 of the state’s 105 counties, with the number growing from Saturday by 58, or 22%. State and local officials have reported seven COVID-19-related deaths, with the latest a man in his 90s, according to The Kansas City Star.
  Owensboro:  The Louisville-based United Food & Commercial Workers Local 227 is trying to get Kentucky and Indiana workers in the retail grocery, meat packing and food processing industries recognized as “first responders” during the coronavirus crisis. As workers in essential industries, their risks of exposure are increased, Caitlin Blair, Local 227 communications director, told the Owensboro Messenger-Inquirer. Being recognized as first responders would provide the workers with greater access to masks and gloves, better access to testing and quicker results, as well as other services like child care. The designation would put Kentucky and Indiana in the company of states like Minnesota, Michigan and Vermont that have already extended the designation, Blair said. Gov. Andy Beshear, during his Friday press conference, acknowledged the importance of these workers when he said, “We need them, and we need to make sure that we have enough of them working. I will do what I can to ensure that those brave souls have the protections that they need.” Local 227 is also working with the companies for extra pay and protections.
  Central:  Hundreds of people flouted the state’s COVID-19 ban on gatherings, coming on buses and in personal vehicles to the first of three Sunday services at their church a day after New Orleans police broke up a funeral gathering of about 100 people. An estimated 500 people of all ages filed inside the Life Tabernacle church in Central, a city of nearly 29,000 outside Baton Rouge. More than 3,500 Louisiana residents have been diagnosed with the disease caused by the new coronavirus, and more than 150 have died, according to state figures released Sunday. Deaths include that of the first federal prison inmate – a man with “serious preexisting conditions” who was being held in Oakdale, Louisiana, the U.S. Bureau of Prisons said Saturday. Assistant ministers and worshippers outside the front doors and in the parking lot at Life Tabernacle told media to leave, saying that cameras would not be allowed on the property and that worshippers had been told not to talk to reporters.
  Portland:  The state’s wildlife and outdoors managers want residents to enjoy the outdoors but are asking that they take precautions during the coronavirus outbreak. One of the most important things to do is avoid crowds, the Maine Department of Inland Fisheries & Wildlife said. That could mean visiting a wildlife management area, a local land trust or a less-visited state park, the department said. People who are experiencing any symptoms of coronavirus should stay home, Maine officials said. Everyone should stay at least 6  feet from other people, and it’s a good idea to stick to easy trails to avoid injuries, the wildlife department said. Democratic Gov. Janet Mills has encouraged residents to get outside and opened all inland waters to fishing, even for residents who lack a recreational license. She has also asked residents to prioritize safety and common sense amid the outbreak. 
  Mount Airy:  A resident of a nursing home died after contracting COVID-19 in an outbreak that has sickened dozens of the facility’s residents and strained a shorthanded staff, health officials said Sunday. A man in his 90s who was a resident at the Pleasant View Nursing Home in Mount Airy died Saturday night after testing positive for COVID-19, Carroll County Health Officer Ed Singer said at a news conference. Singer said 66 facility residents had tested positive, and 11 had been hospitalized. The nursing home with 104 beds is also facing a staffing shortage, as some employees say they are exhibiting symptoms of the virus themselves and afraid to go in. Singer said that to his knowledge, no staff members had tested positive for the virus. The number of coronavirus cases rose to about 1,200 statewide Sunday, an increase of more than 200 from the previous day. Nearly 300 people have been hospitalized, and 10 have died, officials said.
  Boston:  All visitors arriving in the state are being asked to self-quarantine for 14 days as the state tightens its efforts to slow the spread of the coronavirus, Gov. Charlie Baker said Friday. The Republican governor said travelers coming into Massachusetts through the state’s airports and by train will be given flyers instructing them about the quarantine. Instructions will also be placed at highway rest stops and on electronic highway message boards. Baker said there is no enforcement mechanism at this point. The announcement to visitors came hours before the state’s health commissioner announced she tested positive for the virus. Massachusetts Public Health Commissioner Monica Bharel announced Friday night that she tested positive for the virus. Bharel said she had been “vigilant” about practicing social distancing. She said her symptoms are mild, and she will rest at home while continuing to work.
  Detroit:  A convention center will be turned into a 900-bed medical site in response to the coronavirus, the federal government said Sunday. Construction at TCF Center, formerly known as Cobo Center, will begin after contracts are wrapped up in 24 to 36 hours, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers said. The June auto show has been canceled. Gov. Gretchen Whitmer swiftly agreed to use TCF Center. Michigan, especially Detroit and surrounding communities, has been one of the hardest-hit states, with nearly 5,500 cases by Sunday and 132 deaths. Detroit residents represent about 30% of cases. “By mobilizing quickly to construct a large alternate care facility in Detroit, we can help save lives,” Whitmer said. The Democrat was asked on NBC’s “Meet the Press” about back-and-forth barbs with President Donald Trump, who has referred to her as inept. She said she has repeatedly talked to Vice President Mike Pence about Michigan’s needs and has a good relationship with federal agencies. “We are not one another’s enemies. The enemy is the virus. And it is spreading. And it is taking American lives,” the governor said.
  Minneapolis:  Residents are worried about their elderly loved ones as the coronavirus outbreak spreads to nursing homes. At least 17 people living in nine senior care facilities across the state have become infected with COVID-19, the disease caused by the virus, the Star Tribune reports. Public health officials are concerned that the virus already has spread to more facilities but has not been detected. Adult children fear that they won’t be able to touch their relatives again for weeks or months or that their loved ones will die alone in locked-down facilities. “I am trying to stay strong, but it’s absolutely tearing me apart that I can’t reach out and hug my mother,” said Jillian Van Hefty, whose mother has Alzheimer’s disease. “I don’t want her to feel abandoned.” On a recent morning, Van Hefty stood with her 11-year-old son, Alex, as they waved and blew kisses to the 77-year-old woman. She waved back from behind a screened window at the All Saints Senior Living community in Shakopee. Married couples who live in the same facilities also have been separated.
  Jackson:  Not everyone is happy with how Gov. Tate Reeves is managing the state’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Lee Smithson, the former director of the Mississippi Emergency Management Agency, said he can’t believe what Reeves has and has not done while following the lead of the Trump administration in the health crisis, he told The Sun Herald. “I’m so frustrated by the whole thing,” said Smithson, who also served as director of military support for the Mississippi National Guard. “The only thing I can do is minimize my outings and take care of my family. I think it’s going to get a whole lot worse. ... We’re looking at economics over public health.” Smithson is among thousands who have asked Reeves to issue stay-at-home orders for all but essential businesses. Instead, Reeves has allowed businesses such as restaurants and retail stores to continue operating as the state’s numbers continue to rise. As of Saturday, the state’s health department said there were more than 660 confirmed infections and 13 deaths.
  Kirksville:  A student and teacher are  using 3D printing to supply health care facilities in the area with face shields  amid the coronavirus pandemic. A.T. Still University recruited senior Caleb Flaim and Rich Chapman, an engineering instructor at the Kirksville Area Technical Center, to help keep equipment stocked at Northeast Regional Medical Center and Kirksville Family Medicine. The project started after university officials saw stories across the world about supply shortages due to the pandemic. Flaim and Chapman are printing face shields that are made to be worn over the N95 masks that health care workers usually wear. Debra Loguda-Summers, public services manager and 3D print shop manager at the ATSU library, sent Flaim and Chapman an online design file, and within minutes, Flaim had started printing support pieces, which secure the mask to the face. The printers printed one piece in about three hours. To complete the model, Chapman laser-cut some plastic to make the piece that covers the face. Now, Flaim and Chapman will make 100 more. “I think it’s cool,” Chapman said. “For me, being a teacher without a classroom, I still have my kids through distance learning, kind of helping give me a little bit of a sense of purpose.”
  Helena:  Glacier National Park on Friday became the latest national park to close because of the coronavirus outbreak. It closed to visitors until further notice after officials heard from gateway communities in Flathead and Glacier counties, along with the Blackfeet Indian Reservation and the state. “We will continue to work with our state, county and tribal partners as this crisis continues, and we will coordinate with them on when it will be safe to reopen the park,” Superintendent Jeff Mow said. U.S. Highway 2, which partly runs inside the park’s southern boundary, will remain open to traffic. The move follows closures earlier in the week by Yellowstone, Grand Teton and Great Smoky Mountains national parks.
  Omaha:  Four more counties are now covered by an enforceable order limiting public gatherings to 10 people as the number of COVID-19 cases in the state topped 100. Gov. Pete Ricketts’ order was extended to Burt, Cuming, Madison and Stanton counties Sunday. A day earlier, a similar order was imposed on Butler, Hall, Hamilton, Merrick, Polk, Seward and York counties effectively shutting down the dining rooms of restaurants and bars and closing churches, theaters, schools and gyms in those areas. Funerals and weddings are also limited to no more than 10 people. The area covered under the new orders includes more than 150,000 people. State health officials said Sunday that Nebraska has at least 108 cases of COVID-19, up from 99 on Saturday. The first two deaths linked to the disease in the state were reported Friday in Douglas and Hall counties.
  Las Vegas:  More than a dozen unincorporated Clark County businesses have had their business licenses suspended for remaining open during a state government-ordered shutdown as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. The county Business License Department has issued emergency suspensions between Saturday and Wednesday after each of the businesses disregarded Democratic Gov. Steve Sisolak’s order to shut down all nonessential businesses. In another development, Las Vegas and Clark County officials announced the opening of a temporary shelter for homeless people in a parking lot to temporarily replace a shelter closed after a homeless man tested positive for coronavirus. The number of positive cases in Nevada is now up to 738, with at least 14 deaths reported. More than half of positive cases were in men, the Nevada Department of Health and Human Services said. The age most affected was people between 30 and 39, accounting for 19% of total cases.
  Concord:  Gov. Chris Sununu has asked visitors to the state for extended stays to voluntarily self-quarantine to help slow the spread of the new coronavirus. New Hampshire announced 27 new COVID-19 cases Saturday for a total of 214. Meanwhile, toll collection lanes on state highways that make change for drivers will become “Exact Change Toll Fare Only” lanes as of Monday to support the health and safety of customers and workers during the pandemic, the state Transportation Department said. The agency also said that because of reduced traffic volumes, toll plaza cash lanes will not be staffed 24 hours a day but rather from 5  a.m. to 9  p.m. Sununu also issued an order that suspends fingerprinting for criminal background checks. The Department of Safety may allow fingerprinting “on a case-by-case basis” on a request from a state agency “when required to ensure protection of the public.” 
  Trenton:  Additional ventilators are currently the state’s biggest need to combat the coronavirus outbreak, Gov. Phil Murphy said Sunday. Murphy, a Democrat, said on ABC’s “This Week” that he made a request for more ventilators during a call with federal officials Saturday night. “The big headline for us right now are ventilators. We had a very specific conversation with the White House last night about ventilators. That’s our No.  1 ask. It’s our No.  1 need. And that’s the one that we are focused most on right now,” Murphy said. He said the state also has significant need of personal protective equipment for medical professionals. Murphy said President Donald Trump’s proposed travel advisory for New Jersey, New York and Connecticut was fine with him, noting that state residents were largely avoiding travel. More than 11,000 people in New Jersey have tested positive, and 140 have died from COVID-19. 
  Santa Fe:  The state has reported a second death related to the coronavirus, a man in his 80s who died Friday in Bernalillo County, as the outbreak spanned the state, with cases reported in urban and rural areas. The man had been hospitalized and had multiple chronic underlying health conditions, the state Department of Health said Saturday as it reported that 17 of the state’s 33 counties have at least one case of the virus. The department reported 17 additional coronavirus cases statewide, for a total of 208. Meanwhile, the New Mexico State Police and other law enforcement agencies across the state on Friday denied making traffic stops to enforce a statewide stay-at-home order issued by Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham to combat the spread of the coronavirus. Several of the agencies said they were making the announcements because of false rumors on social media that officers were stopping drivers to enforce the order.
  New York:  The state’s coronavirus death toll is nearing 1,000, Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Sunday, accounting for more than 40% of coronavirus deaths in the U.S. The number of disease-related deaths in the state jumped Sunday to 965 from 728 the day before, Cuomo said. The vast majority have been in New York City, the national epicenter of the pandemic, with 678 coronavirus fatalities. Meanwhile, new data is showing which parts of the city are being hit the hardest. Nearly a quarter of the people who’ve died were nursing home residents. Queens accounted for 32% of the city’s more than 30,000 confirmed cases as of Saturday – more than any other borough. Neighborhoods such as Jackson Heights, Elmhurst and Corona, which are generally poor, densely packed and have large non-English speaking populations, have been among the hardest hit, according to a city map showing percent ranges of people testing positive for the disease, also known as COVID-19. In those areas, between 69% and 86% of the tests done have come back positive.
  Raleigh:  The governor says the first coronavirus-related unemployment payments will be paid starting next week as the state is flooded with tens of thousands of claims. Gov. Roy Cooper issued a statement Sunday saying the state has received approximately 270,000 claims in the past two weeks, most of them related to COVID-19, as businesses close or scale back. The state reported about 22,000 claims Saturday alone. By comparison, it received about 7,500 claims in the first two weeks of March. “Thousands of workers have lost jobs, but their bills don’t stop. My administration is working overtime to get unemployment checks out now. We’ll keep pushing every day for more state and federal help to save our workers and their families,” Cooper said. North Carolina health officials reported there were about 1,000 positive cases statewide as of Sunday morning, including four deaths and about 90 hospitalizations.
  Bismarck:  Gov. Doug Burgum said Sunday that he has requested a major presidential disaster declaration as the number of coronavirus cases in North Dakota approaches 100. As of Sunday, the state reported 98 positive cases from state and private labs, up from 94 the previous day. One death from COVID-19, the disease caused by the virus, has been reported. A disaster declaration by President Donald Trump would unlock federal aid to help North Dakota pay for its response to the pandemic, The Bismarck Tribune reports. The request includes state modeling showing how widely the new virus could infect North Dakotans. Burgum wrote that 152,000 people could become infected over an 18-month period, including 22,000 who would require 14-day hospitalizations. Burgum wrote that if projections hold true, North Dakota’s existing health care facilities “will rapidly exhaust capacity.”
  Columbus:  The governor said Sunday that he expects federal regulators to soon clear the way for wide use of a Columbus-based company’s services to sterilize N95 masks. Battelle, a private research lab, says its process, which involves the use of hydrogen peroxide under pressure, can refurbish a single mask up to 20 times before the mask has to be discarded. Shortages of the N95 masks have occurred around the country, and Gov. Mike DeWine said that is also true among Ohio’s health care workers. DeWine said it was reckless that the number of masks Battelle is authorized by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to sterilize every day hasn’t already increased from 10,000. The company says it can handle far more masks and has been working to set up sterilization systems in other parts of the country. DeWine, a Republican, said he received assurances Sunday from President Donald Trump and the Food and Drug Administration commissioner that the approval would be handled quickly.
  Oklahoma City:  The Oklahoma State Department of Health on Sunday reported one additional death due to the coronavirus and 52 new cases statewide. There are now 429 confirmed cases in 44 of the state’s 77 counties and 16 deaths in seven separate counties, according to the health department. The number of cases is up from 377 on Saturday, and the number of deaths rose from 15. The newest death is an Oklahoma County man in the 50-64 age range, the health department said. Deaths have also been reported in Cleveland, Tulsa, Pawnee, Wagoner, Sequoyah and Creek counties. The number of counties affected increased by four, and counties where the virus is confirmed must comply with Gov. Kevin Stitt’s “Safer at Home” order Tuesday that nonessential businesses in counties with COVID-19 cases temporarily suspend services until April  16. Stores such as groceries stores remain open. 
  Portland:  President Donald Trump has approved a major disaster declaration for the state due to the coronavirus outbreak, the White House announced Sunday. The declaration orders federal assistance to aid state, tribal and local recovery efforts. The order is backdated to Jan.  20 and brings to 18 the number of states with disaster declarations due to the coronavirus. Gov. Kate Brown declared a state of emergency March  8. On March  23, she issued an executive order directing residents to stay home to the maximum extent possible and ordered the closure of retail businesses where close personal contact is difficult to avoid, such as hair salons, gyms and theaters. In other news, iconic Portland bookstore Powell’s has rehired some of its employees to fill an increase in online orders, after having laid off nearly 400 people March  17. Owner and CEO Emily Powell thanked the community for its support. Early Sunday, the Oregon health department said the state had 548 people test positive for COVID-19, up from 479 on Saturday. The total of 13 deaths remained the same. 
  Harrisburg:  The number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the state increased by more than 640 over one day, and four more people died, the state Health Department announced Sunday. The state’s health secretary, Dr. Rachel Levine, said 38 people in all have died in the state after being diagnosed with the coronavirus infection. Nearly 3,400 Pennsylvanians have tested positive. Most of the people who have died or required hospitalization in Pennsylvania have been 65 or older. The medical director at a western Pennsylvania nursing home said 14 residents have become infected with the coronavirus, and additional tests are pending. Dr. Dave Thimons told the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette staff are doing what they can to help those affected at the Brighton Rehabilitation and Wellness Center in Beaver. Meanwhile, migrant advocates told The Philadelphia Inquirer that immigration detainees began a hunger strike in a central Pennsylvania prison, in York County, to demand release during the coronavirus pandemic.
  Westerly:  The Rhode Island National Guard started going door-to-door Saturday in coastal areas to inform any New Yorkers who may have come to the state that they must self-quarantine for 14 days, while Gov. Gina Raimondo expanded the mandatory self-quarantine to anyone visiting the state. Raimondo also ordered residents to stay at home, with exceptions for getting food or medicine or going to the doctor, and ordered nonessential retail businesses to close Monday until April  13 to help stop the spread of the coronavirus. She also directed real estate agents and hotel operators to include new requirements that any out-of-state residents must quarantine for 14 days in their purchase agreements. Raimondo said the order is not meant to be discriminatory, but New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo called it “reactionary” and unconstitutional, saying he’d sue Rhode Island if the policy isn’t rescinded but believed they could “work it out.” 
  Columbia:  Two state prison employees have tested positive for the coronavirus, but no inmates have been confirmed with the illness, the Corrections Department said. The latest employee to get COVID-19 was a behavioral health employee who visits prisons, the agency said. The employee went into isolation March  19 and last visited prisons March  17 but did not have contact with any inmates, the Corrections Department said in a statement. Prison officials also reported a guard at Broad River Correctional Institution tested positive after spending 10 days in isolation. The officer worked in a special housing unit where 16 prisoners each stay in individual cells. Meanwhile, early Sunday also brought another stay-at-home order into effect in Columbia. State Attorney General Alan Wilson’s office issued an opinion Friday saying local stay-at-home orders were illegal because only the governor had the power to issue one in a state of emergency like South Carolina faces with COVID-19. Gov. Henry McMaster has given no indication if he will challenge the governments challenging him. 
  Sioux Falls:  Gov. Kristi Noem has asked state lawmakers to act Monday on 10 pieces of emergency legislation aimed at a months ­ long COVID-19 fight. The emergency legislation covers a range of issues, including pushing local elections back until at least June, allowing the secretary of health to put restrictions on group gatherings and creating a fund of about $11  million for loans to small businesses affected by the pandemic. All the bills have an emergency clause that would put them into effect immediately, which means they need a two-thirds majority to pass. They all have a sunset clause to expire later in the year. Lawmakers will also consider action on bills the governor has vetoed. Most lawmakers won’t be in the Capitol building Monday. They’ll be hundreds of miles away, speaking and voting via a video call system hastily assembled in the past week. 
  Nashville:  A nursing home has moved 24 patients to a local hospital after some tested positive for COVID-19, and the hospital said Saturday that one of the patients has died. The remaining 23 patients have been admitted to the Sumner County Regional Medical Center and are in isolation, according to a post Saturday on the hospital’s official Facebook page. The hospital did not disclose whether the patient who died had tested positive for COVID-19 or was one of those with COVID-19 symptoms whose test results were not complete. Meanwhile, the state was refusing to identify the counties where COVID-19 deaths have occured. Tennessee was reporting 1,373 cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, according to the state Health Department. In general, the state’s case numbers have tended to lag those released by the counties.
  Dallas:  Sunny skies and spring temperatures brought locals to parks and trails this weekend, but the chief elected officer in Dallas County said many were not practicing social distancing that will help in the fight against the coronavirus. Dallas and other large cities in Texas are under stay-at-home orders that allow people to go out for exercise. But that order still includes staying at least 6  feet away from others. “Don’t breath (sic) the droplets of hundreds of people to exercise or on unnecessary trips. There are plenty of safe alternatives including neighborhoods,” Dallas County Judge Clay Jenkins tweeted Saturday, which saw highs in the 70s throughout the metro area. Jenkins also tweeted photos of his own bike ride showing joggers and cyclists who were leaving enough distance between themselves and others. COVID-19 has claimed 34 lives in Texas as of Sunday, and the number of cases increased to at least 2,552. 
  Salt Lake City:  A congressman who tested positive for the coronavirus has been released from the hospital as the number of cases in the state jumped to more than 600. Democratic Rep. Ben McAdams said on Twitter on Saturday that his doctors released him from the hospital after eight days to continue his recovery at home. “This is really serious. Please take the advice of the CDC seriously, follow all of the guidelines, and let’s get through this together,” he said in a video. Meanwhile, Gov. Gary Hebert issued a stay-at-home directive Friday as the state works to curb the spread of the new coronavirus that’s killed two in Utah. The directive calls on people to avoid all gatherings, including family get-togethers and children’s playdates, and public places as much as possible. It does not require business closings or carry penalties if the rules are broken. Herbert said it was a “data-driven” approach that would allow for some economic activity to continue while creating protections.
  Montpelier:  Vermont State Police are visiting hundreds of hotels and motels to make sure they are closed under Gov. Phil Scott’s order to slow the spread of the virus, state police said Sunday. The Vermont National Guard has set up an additional COVID-19 patient test site at Landmark College in Putney, the state Health Department announced. The state reported 235 coronavirus cases Sunday, up from 211 on Saturday. Meanwhile, Scott said Friday that his decision to close in-person schools for the rest of the academic year is intended to help slow the spread of COVID-19. Schools are required to come up with plans for distance learning by April  13. He said he hoped children would be able to return to school at the end of the year for activities such as graduation. “But we won’t make that decision until we’re certain it’s safe,” he said. 
  Richmond:  The coronavirus outbreak has claimed more than 20 lives in the state. Virginia health officials said 22 people had died after contracting COVID-19 as of Sunday. Overall, the state has reported nearly 900 cases and about 100 hospitalizations due to the outbreak. The deaths include two reported by the Arlington Health District on Sunday. Health officials said the two people who died were a 72-year-old and a 60-year-old who both had chronic conditions. Meanwhile, state parks are restricting access and services even further. The Richmond Times-Dispatch reports overnight facilities and restrooms will be closed through April  30. The facilities include all cabins and campgrounds as well as restrooms and bathhouses. Visitor centers and other indoor facilities are also closed. Visitors are asked to follow social-distancing guidelines. Those who are sick or have been exposed to people who are sick have been asked to stay away. 
  Seattle:  A military field hospital for people with medical issues that are not related to the coronavirus outbreak is under construction at CenturyLink Field Event Center, home to the Seattle Seahawks football team. Three hundred soldiers from the 627th Army Hospital at Fort Carson have deployed to Seattle to staff the hospital, expected to create at least 150 hospital beds for non-COVID-19 cases. The facility will be ready to start seeing patients in just a few days, officials said. “We know that this Army field hospital will be critical and will reduce the burden on hospitals here,” Mayor Jenny Durkan said. “The military is here to help, not take over. They are here to help because they know Seattle needs it.” FEMA Region 10 Administrator Mike O’Hare thanked those in the private sector, including CenturyLink and others who have reached out to share resources. FEMA has designated $100  million to the military to boost medical services in Washington in response to the outbreak. 
  Wheeling:  Emergency officials found more than a dozen ventilators and other important equipment in the shuttered Ohio Valley Medical Center last week as they prepare for possible shortages amid the coronavirus pandemic. Lou Vargo, director of the Wheeling-Ohio County Homeland Security and Emergency Management Agency, told The Intelligencier that plans and training scenarios for a pandemic response are being put to the test for the first time in the Ohio Valley. “A lot of things we prepare for, we’re dealing with now,” he said. The pandemic plan getting use for the first time included a walk-through at the former Ohio Valley Medical Center facility in Wheeling. “We did come across a lot of disposable gowns and gloves, hand sanitizers, and a big thing we have had a hard time coming across is face shields, so when first responders are dealing with patients in these situations, there’s no exposure to their faces,” Vargo said. The hospital also has negative pressure units and more than a dozen ventilators, including an infant ventilator. “It was like finding a pot of gold in there,” Vargo said of the ventilators.
  Madison:  The administration of Democratic Gov. Tony Evers is moving ahead with plans to buy 10,000 ventilators and 1  million protective masks in the fight against the coronavirus after clashing with GOP lawmakers over whether he needed their permission to make such purchases. Evers gave legislative leaders a bill last week that included the purchases while calling for spending more than $700  million to help care for thousands of sick and jobless people in Wisconsin. The bill also would impose measures that Republicans oppose, such as suspending GOP-sponsored photo ID requirements for voters. Evers’ administration on Friday had urged lawmakers to act quickly on the bill, but top Republicans said Saturday that Evers already had the authority to buy the necessary equipment. As of Saturday, the state Department of Health Services reported 989 people had tested positive for COVID-19, the disease caused by the virus, and 13 had died. 
  Cheyenne:  The governor on Friday extended a two-week shutdown of schools and businesses to contain the coronavirus, saying a surge in people with the illness required “sustained action.” Gov. Mark Gordon in a statement urged residents to continue staying home except for essential needs and to practice social distancing – keeping at least 6  feet apart and not gathering in groups of 10 or more if they do go out. The announcement means the shutdown will now extend until April  17. “I understand the ongoing strain that these measures are having on businesses, workers and Wyoming communities,” Gordon said. “This is how we can save lives and protect people’s health.” Gordon to date has held back from issuing a statewide stay-at-home order like neighboring states. But on the advice of health officials, he has shut down dine-in service at restaurants and establishments including bars, museums, theaters, hair salons and tattoo shops. 
  From USA TODAY Network and wire reports 
 