I am  Gabrielle Canon , filling in for Arline Martinez. We made it to Friday!
  But first,  as of Friday afternoon, there were more than 11,300 confirmed cases in California, with the most concentrated in Los Angeles County, the state's most populous. In the Golden State,  250 people in California  have already lost their lives to the virus. 
  But  the Golden State is still lagging far behind others  in how quickly it can test symptomatic residents — let along those who aren't sick enough to qualify for a test. Public health officials expect the number of people with coronavirus is a lot higher than the test numbers indicate, and have begun cautiously recommending that anyone leaving their homes (for essential reasons only!) wear something — like a scarf or bandana — over their face so they don't run the risk of infecting others. 
  Despite the surging numbers — and Gov. Gavin Newsom's update that California's cases are expected to continue rising with a peak in early May — there's evidence that the fast-acting decision to  issue the nation's first statewide shelter-in-place order is helping . Here's to staying home. 
  In California brings you stories and information from newsrooms across the USA TODAY Network and beyond to keep you safe and informed.  Subscribe today  for free delivery right to your inbox  every evening M-F.  
  At Newsom's  noon briefing on Friday  (now a regular thing that can be watched online on the governor's Twitter page), he announced that the state had secured roughly 7,000 hotel rooms that will be made available to the homeless. The program, which aims to obtain a total of 15,000 units in areas where large numbers of people sleep on the streets, is intended to help curb the spread of COVID-19 among this highly vulnerable community. 
  The rooms come complete with "essential wraparound services," including cleaning, laundry, security and other support staff. Some areas will also benefit from a partnership with Chef José Andrés’s World Central Kitchen, which will provide three meals a day.
  More than 800 people have already moved in. 
  “What we want to do is relieve the stress in our shelter system,” Newsom said. “If left unaddressed, we allow our most vulnerable residents in the state of California to be exposed to this virus."
  California is the first state to secure FEMA funding for such a project, and the state will be reimbursed by the federal agency for up to 75% of costs. 
  The Trump administration announced $3 billion Thursday for homelessness pandemic efforts. Newsom has pledged $150 million in homeless aid, including money for hotel rooms. 
  There are more than 150,000 homeless people in California. Advocates have been  concerned and critical of how slow  officials were to address the higher risks faced by the homeless population, especially in the face of closures of public libraries and other facilities, which made it even more difficult for the unhoused to access water, food, and restrooms.  
  Still, the National Alliance to End Homelessness praised the plan.
  “Through Project Roomkey, California has taken the lead in protecting homeless residents from COVID-19,” said president Nan Roman in a statement. “This initiative sets a strong national example of how state leaders can leverage their dollars with FEMA, HUD and other federal funds to address the needs of the most vulnerable homeless populations in this crisis and protect public health."
  It's sad to think there are people out there exploiting this emergency and preying on pandemic fears to turn a profit. But, well, sigh.
  While we can't stop scammers,  are ways to be vigilant and not fall victim to online tricks.  The Federal Communications Commission has shared some helpful tools and  examples of what to expect , to keep you ahead of the game. 
  Got a call offering free home testing kits? SCAM. 
  Maybe a text message came in from a Department of Health and Human Services official ordering you to take a mandatory online screening test? SCAM.
  Someone has called saying you need to verify your personal information to get your federal stimulus check, a loan for your small business, or student loan debt forgiveness? SCAM, SCAM, SCAM. 
  Report anything that seems suspicious or consult this list of tips from the Feds: 
  Sports events have been canceled, much to the dismay of fans now home on their couches looking for something to watch. If ever there was  a moment for e-sports,  it is now. 
  People are tuning in to watch  others play video games.  
  Nascar drivers  are now behind the wheels of virtual cars.  
  And now, you can even get your basketball fix with the NBA'S 2K Players Tournament.  The LA Times has all the details here.  
  Sports not your thing? Already binge-watched Tiger King? Try looking out your window—   some Gilroy residents have spotted big cats this week.  Mountain lions, to be exact. Just another reason not to leave your house.  
  If all else fails, here's how The Desert Sun's columnist Shad Powers  survived a staycation.  
  Even as businesses shuttered across the state under Newsom's shelter-in-place orders, lines outside gun stores could be seen wrapping around buildings. It's not just happening in California. 
  As fears spiked alongside coronavirus numbers in recent weeks, Americans have  purchased a record-breaking number of firearms.  Federal data shows that more than 3.7 million background checks were conducted in March, shattering a more than 20-year record. 
  But some California county officials have cracked down on the businesses, ordering them to close. Gun rights advocates argue that they should be considered "essential" enterprises, which are exempt from the orders. 
  A federal  judge has now officially disagreed.  
  U.S. District Court Judge Consuelo Marshall ruled against Camarillo resident Donald McDougall, who filed for a temporary order blocking gun stores from closing in Ventura County, claiming that his constitutional rights had been violated by the order. 
  In a two-page opinion, Marshall acknowledged the importance of protecting the Second Amendment but ruled that protecting public health is a priority, writing, "the county order does not specifically target handgun ownership, does not prohibit the ownership of a handgun outright, and is temporary."  
  Still, it's not a done deal. McDougall is hoping for help from powerful pro-gun organizations. 
  In a separate suit,  the National Rifle Association sued  several California cities and New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo for closing gun shops during the COVID-19 response. 
  On Friday morning, the Riverside County Sheriff's Department shared tragic news — a  second deputy has died after getting coronavirus.  
  Deputy David Werksman was 51 years old and had devoted 22 years to serving his community. Described as kind and always willing to help, department leaders said the department is reeling from the second loss of the week. On Thursday, Sheriff Chad Bianco announced that Deputy Terrell Young had died from the virus. 
  "I'm seriously heartbroken," Bianco said during an afternoon news conference outside the sheriff's department in Riverside. "We are reeling from the reality that this virus has taken the lives of two of our family members in the past 24 hours. Our hearts and our prayers go out to Deputy Werksman's and Deputy Young's families."
  Newsom shared that Santa Rosa Police Department Det. Marylou Armer was the first line of duty death of a police officer in California associated with COVID-19. She was 44.
  “Jennifer and I are terribly saddened to learn of Detective Armer’s untimely death. Amid the current fight against COVID-19, Detective Armer selflessly and courageously served her community and the people of California," Newsom said in a statement. "We extend our heartfelt condolences to her family, friends, colleagues and members of the Santa Rosa community as they mourn her loss.”
  The flags are being flown at half-staff to honor her. 
  That's it from me tonight.  Hope you all stay safe and #STAYHOME this weekend. 
  In California is a roundup of news from across USA TODAY Network newsrooms. Also contributing: The Atlantic, The Los Angeles Times, The Press Democrat, The San Francisco Chronicle, and The Guardian.  
 