Katie Miller, the wife of adviser Stephen Miller, has  tested positive for the coronavirus . The infection of Ms. Miller, a close adviser to Vice President Pence, means potential exposure to President Trump’s inner circle — so reporters are raising questions about White House internal testing policies.
  The White House has  indicated to reporters  that Pence and many members of his staff have been getting tested daily, and Pence and Trump appear not to have had contact with Katie Miller recently.
  Meanwhile, press secretary Kayleigh McEnany sought to reassure the news media that the White House testing procedures are sound. I wanted to draw attention to  this quote from McEnany :
  The careful reader will note a jarring juxtaposition here. McEnany claims  both  that the United States is reopening safely  and  that the White House is operating safely. But only one of these two — the White House — actually has the sort of testing regime the White House itself is now implicitly acknowledging is a prerequisite to safety.
  The rest of the country largely lacks this level of testing — because Trump doesn’t want to take the steps necessary to stand up a robust federal testing regime.
  The rub here is that the guidelines by themselves (which McEnany referenced) aren’t enough. Equipment and resources are also necessary.
  Trump, Pence and their aides  have access to rapid and regular testing, which is also given to those  who meet with them. They have access to the resources that enable the very sort of safe testing regime McEnany described here.
  It’s true that the fact that Miller tested positive — as  one of Trump’s valets did  earlier this week — shows that having robust testing isn’t absolutely foolproof. The coronavirus can still get in. But  as Philip Bump notes , having that intensity of testing is exactly what prevented it from spreading.
  That’s the whole point behind the idea that you need far more robust testing and tracing to reopen the economy safely. Experts  have noted  that you need not just dramatically ramped-up testing resources, but also a robust effort at contact tracing — which entails tracking and testing those who have had contact with infected people — to make this possible.
  Some of Trump’s own officials and  coronavirus  task force members agree with this. CNN’s Jake Tapper  reports  that they have privately urged Trump to “take the lead on an ambitious national testing program,” so that “society can responsibly take steps to reopen,” including fully deploying the Defense Production Act to marshal the private-sector resources to make this happen.
  But Trump has rebuffed the idea. Instead, Trump has signaled that the states should largely bear this burden.
  But many states  have been loudly saying they need more federal help  in securing the equipment they need to do the requisite number of tests, as indeed Trump’s own officials have told him. And as many states move to reopen, many of them are  struggling to ramp up contact tracing programs, creating a patchwork  around the country.
  McEnany herself correctly noted that both testing and contact tracing are key to keeping those in the White House working at close quarters with one another safe. But Trump is urging Americans to resume economic activity without fully deploying the federal government so that the rest of the country can enjoy the protections Trump and those around him do.
  It is of course to be expected that they have access to these protections, because Trump is the president. But Trump is making a  choice  not to meaningfully take the steps necessary to extend this to the rest of us. Businesses everywhere are reopening in the grip of a level of frightening uncertainty that the White House is being spared, in part because of that very choice.
  It should be shocking that the White House would so blithely reveal that its own safety is dependent on the very thing Trump is not making a serious effort to bring to the rest of the country, while simultaneously claiming we are just as safe as they are. But at this point, nothing is shocking anymore.
  The Opinions section is looking for stories of how the coronavirus has affected people of all walks of life. Write to us. 
  Read more: 
  Erik Wemple: Kayleigh McEnany fails to reframe her famous coronavirus gaffe 
  Erik Wemple: Kayleigh McEnany promises reporters: ‘I will never lie to you’ 
  Zack Cooper: We can scale up testing. We’re just waiting on the government to agree. 
  Bama Athreya: Governors should ask workers how to reopen the economy 
  The Post’s View:  The path to reopening is clear. Our national strategy is not. 
 