President Trump says he has always taken the coronavirus very seriously from early on, pushing back at reporters who cite statements he's made in the recent past dismissing the severity of the virus.
  "No, I've always viewed it as very serious," Mr. Trump said on March 16. "There was no difference yesterday from days before. I feel the tone is similar, but some people said it wasn't."
  But not so long ago, as the virus ravaged China and Europe and touched the U.S., the president compared the number of deaths from COVID-19 to deaths from the flu.
  "The flu, in our country, kills from 25,000 people to 69,000 people a year," he said on February 9, suggesting that it dwarfed the 15 cases of COVID-19 that had been reported in the U.S. at the time. By March 31, though, his tone was different. He talked about a friend who had slipped into a coma because of the disease. "This is not the flu. It is vicious," he told reporters in the White House Briefing Room. 
  In February, when the federal government had confirmed just 15 cases of the virus, Mr. Trump predicted the number   would soon be near "zero." Now, the White House is preparing the nation for the  sobering possibility of 100,000 deaths , or maybe more.  
  Here is a timeline of the various ways the president has described the virus since January, along with how many cases were reported in the U.S.,  according to Johns Hopkins data . 
  "We do have a plan" 
  "We have it under control" 
  Appreciates China's "efforts and transparency"  
  U.S. experts "are on top of situation 24/7" 
  U.S. has a "very little problem" with five cases 
  President Trump bars many travelers from China, and U.S. declares a public health emergency. 
  President Trump is acquitted after impeachment trial in the Senate.
  With warmer weather "virus hopefully becomes weaker with warmer weather, and then gone" 
  Xi "feels...the heat, generally speaking, kills this kind of virus" 
  Situation is "very much under control" 
  "The Coronavirus is very much under control in the USA"  
  Coronavirus is "very well under control in our country"  
  The 15 cases in U.S. "within a couple days is going to be down close to zero" 
  Virus will "disappear" one day "like a miracle" 
  "Everything is really under control" 
  First coronavirus death in the U.S. on this day  
  It's "very safe to fly" in "large portions of the world"  
  "Anybody that wants a test can get a test" 
  Compares number of deaths caused by coronavirus and flu  
  "Just stay calm. It will go away" 
  "We will be suspending all travel from Europe to the United States for the next 30 days" 
  Highlights lower number of deaths in U.S. 
  Declares national emergency 
  Announces new social distancing guidelines, says outbreak could last until July or August 
  Wants country and economy "raring to go by Easter"  
  "We begin to see the light at the end of the tunnel"  
  Extends Easter target to April 30 
  "This could be a hell of a bad two weeks." Raises possibility of 100,000 deaths in U.S. 
  Trump says COVID-19 is "not the flu"  
 