California has declared an emergency over the coronavirus outbreak, as   that has been linked to two cases of the illness in the state.
  The first death in California related to coronavirus was confirmed Wednesday, while another fatality in Washington brought that state's death toll to 10.
  Congressional leaders have agreed on   to help fight the coronavirus that is headed to the House.
  The virus is now spreading more rapidly outside China, where the epidemic started, with mainland China recording just 119 new confirmed cases while hundreds of cases were reported globally.
  South Korea alone recorded an additional 516 cases of coronavirus Wednesday, bringing the total to 5,328 confirmed cases, the largest outbreak outside of mainland China.
  Governments around the world are introducing a range of measures to stop the spread of the disease. In Italy, where there have been more than 2,000 cases, all schools and colleges are shut for 10 days.
  
  
  
  Reuters
  Art lovers were locked out of Paris's famous Louvre on Sunday as staff at the world’s most-visited museum held a meeting about the coronavirus outbreak.
  Long lines of disgruntled tourists snaked outside the museum which is home to Leonardo da Vinci’s Mona Lisa portrait and the Venus de Milo sculpture.
  A spokeswoman said the museum in central Paris was expected to open after the meeting between management, personnel and the staff doctor.
  She added museums were not covered by government orders to cancel and until further notice, all public gatherings indoors or in confined spaces with more than 5,000 people.
  ⚠ An informational meeting on the public health situation linked to   prevention measures following the ministerial instructions transmitted by the competent authorities has delayed the opening of the   on Sunday, March 1. The museum cannot open at the moment.  
  The government issued the orders on Saturday in a bid to contain the spread of the virus,  
  Reuters
  An Italian national staying at a hotel in Tenerife which has been placed on lockdown after four cases of the coronavirus were detected has tested positive for the virus, regional health authorities have confirmed.
  The Italian national, part of the same group as the four original cases at the H10 Costa Adeje Palace Hotel, has been in isolation in a hotel room since Feb. 24 and will be taken to the hospital, the Canary Islands' regional health authorities said Saturday, adding the Italian was "in good state of health".
  It brings the total number of active cases in the Canary Islands to six - five in Tenerife and one in La Gomera.
  On Saturday, the fifth day of the hotel's lockdown, some of the 130 guests who had been cleared to leave on Friday were seen exiting its grounds with suitcases.
  More than 700 tourists remain inside waiting out a 14-day isolation period imposed on Wednesday.
  Dareh Gregorian
  Democratic presidential candidates have critcized President Donald Trump's claim that the  is the Democrats' "new hoax."
  They   — while Trump complained again they are making political hay of the outbreak.
  Trump made the assertion during  Friday night. He told the crowd Democrats have been "politicizing" the outbreak. 
  Former Vice President Joe Biden told MSNBC earlier Saturday that Trump's rally comments were "absolutely bizarre."
  "Look, this is a serious, serious problem. It's able to be solved, but it requires us to be absolutely level-headed and let the scientists have the lead in all of this," Biden said. "But for him to start talking about it being a hoax is absolutely dangerous. It's just not a decent way to act."
  Echoing his complaint, Pete Buttigieg, the former mayor of South Bend, Indiana, told the "TODAY" Saturday that he's "very concerned" with how the administration has handled the issue to date.
  Yuliya Talmazan
  Iran's health ministry said the number of confirmed cases reached nearly 1,000 Sunday. 
  Iranian Health Ministry spokesperson Kianoosh Jahanpour said on Iranian state television 987 people have been confirmed to have COVID-19 and 54 people have died.
  Only China, where the outbreak originated, has recorded more deaths.  
  Along with South Korea and Italy, Iran is one of the coronavirus epidemic hotspots outside of China.
  Reuters
  Churches were closed in South Korea on Sunday with many holding online services instead as authorities fought to rein in public gatherings, with 586 new infections taking the tally to 3,736 cases.
  That came a day after the biggest daily jump of 813 cases in South Korea's battle with the largest virus outbreak outside China, the Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (KCDC) said. The death toll rose to 18.
  In Seoul, the capital, about a dozen worshippers were turned away from the Yoido Full Gospel Church, which put a sermon for its 560,000 followers on YouTube, filmed with a small choir instead of all 200 members and 60-strong orchestra.
  "I had heard there would be no service, but just came to check as I live nearby, but yes, it is so empty," said one of them, Song Young-koo, as he left South Korea's biggest church. "It's a wise decision to do it online, since the virus would easily spread at mass gatherings and churches can be no exception."
  Henry Austin
  Britain's Prime Minister Boris Johnson will chair a meeting of the government's emergency response committee on Monday, signaling a stepping up of Britain's preparation for COVID-19. 
  Describing the outbreak as a "very, very significant challenge," the U.K.'s Health Minister Matt Hancock, admitted that the country was planning for the epidemic to get worse.   
  "We've got a clear strategy for dealing with coronavirus — a very, very significant challenge," he told British broadcaster Sky News. "We're also planning in case this gets worse, much worse."
  Reuters
  Tokyo and Beijing are leaning towards delaying Chinese President Xi Jinping's state visit to Japan, originally planned for early April, as the neighbours battle a coronavirus outbreak, Japan's Sankei Shimbun newspaper reported Sunday.
  Citing diplomatic sources in both countries, the paper said the visit was likely to be postponed until autumn or later.
  However, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe told a news conference Saturday, that preparations for Xi's visit were going ahead.
  Reuters and Michelle Gooden-Jones
  The first case of coronavirus was confirmed in the Republic of Ireland on Saturday, health officials in the country said. 
  The case is associated with travel from an affected area in northern Italy, the Health Protection Surveillance Centre (HPSC) said in a statement, which noted that the patient is receiving appropriate medical care.
  It added that it was working to identify anyone the patient had contact with to provide them with information and advice on how to prevent further spread of the virus. 
  We have been informed today of a confirmed case of   in Ireland.   now working to identify any contact patient may have had, to provide them with info & advice to prevent further spread. It is important to note that risk of transmission through casual contact is low  
  Michelle Gooden-Jones
  Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe, a British Iranian mother who has been  , may have contracted coronavirus, her husband said. 
  Richard Ratcliffe said in a statement issued by the Free Nazanin Campaign that Tehran's Evin Prison, where she is detained, has repeatedly refused to test her for the respiratory illness following a "strange cold" that has not improved in more than five days. 
  "For a long time this has not felt like a normal cold," he said. "These symptoms have lasted almost a week. I know I need to get medicine to get better. This does not go away magically."
  Ratcliffe also called on the British government to insist his wife was tested for the virus and has asked U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson to ensure British Iranians held in the prison are diplomatically protected.
  Alicia Victoria Lozano
  A baby born Jan. 15 has tested   in South Korea, making him perhaps the youngest patient to be infected with the disease.
  Both of his parents also tested positive for coronavirus, the infection that causes COVID-19.  
  The baby and his mother are in stable condition, South Korean public health officials said. The two have been quarantined in their home instead of being hospitalized because of the baby's age.
  The father's condition was not immediately clear. 
  Based on a small study of women in China that was published in early February, there is currently no evidence the  before birth from a mother who was infected late in pregnancy. 
 