Montgomery:  The state is remaining open for business as its coronavirus caseload grows, with at least 215 people known to be infected as of Tuesday, according to the Department of Public Health. The ages of those infected ranged from 2 to 97, and about 6% to 7% of the cases have required hospitalization, State Health Officer Scott Harris said Monday. The caseload has grown as testing becomes available, showing 90 people infected in Jefferson County, 24 in Shelby County, and 21 each in Lee and Madison counties. No deaths have been reported. The state has closed all K-12 schools through April  5 and prohibited on-site restaurant dining and non-work gatherings of more than 25 people where people can’t stay 6  feet apart. Health officials in Jefferson County ordered the closure of nonessential businesses, including hair salons and many retail stores, in a bid to stem the outbreak. 
  Anchorage:  Anyone flying to Alaska from another state or nation will have to self-quarantine for 14 days immediately after arriving, state officials said Monday as they announced four new cases of the coronavirus. Officials also said all businesses, congregations or gatherings where people are within 6 feet of each other, like nail or hair salons or tattoo or massage businesses, must stop operations. Authorities said there should be no gatherings larger than 10 people, and social distancing must be implemented for the smaller gatherings. The new mandates were announced as Alaska has steadily seen the number of cases of coronavirus increasing, with Gov. Mike Dunleavy saying Monday that the count had reached 36, with community spread noted. Meanwhile, the state Senate approved a budget provision Monday that would give residents a $1,000 payment as a way to blunt economic impacts from the coronavirus.
  Phoenix:  The state’s COVID-19 cases  are accelerating quickly as more testing becomes available , with 326 identified cases and five known deaths reported Tuesday. The number of cases increased 39% since Monday. Gov. Doug Ducey first announced the state now had five total deaths known to be from COVID-19 on a KTAR radio show Tuesday morning. The number of cases is likely much higher than official numbers suggest. People have reported trouble getting tested, as health professionals confront confusion over whom to test and a lack of supplies. The state health department’s publicly reported numbers only provide positive test results from private labs, not the total number of people tested, leaving the online data incomplete. The entry of private labs into testing appears to be helping the state identify cases, as the majority of reported positive cases are coming from private labs.
  Little Rock:  The state on Tuesday reported its first two deaths from the coronavirus outbreak. Faulkner County’s deputy coroner said a 91-year-old man died Tuesday morning at a Conway hospital from COVID-19, the illness caused by the coronavirus. State Health Secretary Dr. Nathaniel Smith said the other death was a patient in their 50s in the central Arkansas area. The number of coronavirus cases in the state rose from 201 on Monday to at least 218. Gov. Asa Hutchinson said Monday that the state faces a $353  million shortfall because of the economic fallout from the outbreak. Hutchinson said he planned to call a special session that will begin Thursday to address the budget shortfall. “It is going to be a challenge for the next three months,” the governor said. 
  Sacramento:  Gov. Gavin Newsom on Monday ruled out releasing violent inmates in response to the coronavirus pandemic, but he left the door open to other relief that he said needs to be carefully weighed to avoid worsening the state’s homelessness crisis. One inmate and five employees in California’s massive prison system have tested positive for the coronavirus, leading to increased pressure on corrections officials to begin releasing some of the state’s 123,000 convicts early. It’s among topics being discussed by a pandemic task force appointed by U.S. District Judge Kimberly Mueller, who wants answers by Friday. But earlier releases would bring their own complications as the most populous state struggles to contain an outbreak that has killed 35 residents and brought more than 2,000 cases. “I have no interest – and I want to make this crystal clear – in releasing violent criminals from our system. And I won’t use a crisis as an excuse to create another crisis,” Newsom said. “If we start to release prisoners that are not prepared with their parole plans, they may end up out on the streets and sidewalks, in a homeless shelter. If we don’t prepare people to get back on their feet, they may end up in the emergency rooms.”
  Denver:  The city issued a stay-at-home order Monday limiting most people to going out only for essentials such as groceries, medication and exercise as officials try to slow the spread of the coronavirus. Under the order from Mayor Michael Hancock, businesses that are not considered “essential” must be closed starting at 5  p.m. Tuesday until at least April  10. The closures initially included liquor stores and recreational marijuana shops, but Hancock later amended the order to allow those businesses to remain open as long as “extreme physical distancing” is in place. Residents flocked to liquor stores and marijuana dispensaries and queued in long lines shortly after Hancock issued the initial order. Construction projects, mass transit and ride shares could still proceed. The move came a day after Gov. Jared Polis ordered nonessential businesses to cut their in-person workforces by at least half and appealed to people’s sense of duty to spend as much time at home as possible rather than issuing an order. 
  Hartford:  Businesses adapted to new social distancing guidelines Tuesday, and state lawmakers were planning to continue work on an assistance package for small companies affected by the coronavirus outbreak despite the postponement of the legislative session. More than 400 people in Connecticut have tested positive for the virus, and 10 patients have died. Public schools will be closed until at least April  20, the governor said Monday, and the state is looking into repurposing old nursing homes and empty college dormitories to help free up space for hospitals as they brace for more COVID-19 patients. The state’s latest efforts to quell the spread of the coronavirus that causes COVID-19 come as the Department of Correction reports the first prison employee has tested positive. The unidentified employee works at a prison in Newtown. To help students learn while schools are closed, Gov. Ned Lamont said the Partnership for Connecticut, a public-private education partnership with Dalio Philanthropies, plans to make 60,000 laptop computers available to high school students. He said the laptops will come at “virtually no cost” to the state of Connecticut. 
  Dover:  Gov. John Carney declared a public health emergency Monday as state officials reported a tenfold increase in the number of coronavirus cases in Delaware compared to a week ago. The declaration, which took effect at 5  p.m Monday, authorizes state officials to direct vaccination, treatment, isolation, quarantine and other measures to contain the spread of the virus. It also calls for a prompt assessment of emergency medical supplies, capacity needs, and the immediate purchase of all necessary supplies and drugs. The declaration also waives state Medicaid requirements and orders health insurers to waive all prior authorization requirements for the lab testing and treatment of confirmed or suspected cases, and it waives and suspends state contracting and procurement requirements for materials or services needed to address the outbreak. 
  Washington:  Mayor Muriel Bowser said nonessential business in the district, including personal services including salons and barbershops, were ordered to close Tuesday in an effort to help mitigate the spread of coronavirus,  WUSA-TV reports . Bowser also announced a $1  million fund to provide students access to distance learning during the coronavirus outbreak. Tuesday was the first day of distance learning at D.C. Public Schools, adjusting spring break for the past five school days, she said. The district announced 21 new positive cases of the coronavirus, including a 1-year-old child. So far, 137 people have been infected by the virus in the nation’s capital. 
  Tallahassee:  Gov. Ron DeSantis asked President Donald Trump to declare Florida a disaster area, saying the coronavirus outbreak is having a “drastic effect” on the state’s economy and medical providers. DeSantis wrote in a letter to Trump released late Monday that Florida’s “hospitals, medical facilities, and first responders are facing challenges rarely experienced before,” and the state has already spent $208  million on related unemployment assistance, food stamps, disaster loans and mental health counseling. Such a declaration would make Florida eligible for federal aid. This is no hurricane, but DeSantis wrote that the state’s medical system is already burdened, and the situation will get worse, with limited testing showing more than 1,400 people infected and 17 deaths. Meanwhile, some of Florida’s harder-hit municipalities ordered all their residents to shelter in place Tuesday after DeSantis argued against a statewide order and blamed people flying in from New York and New Jersey for potentially spreading the coronavirus. 
  Atlanta:  The number of confirmed coronavirus infections in the state pushed past 1,000 Tuesday, with deaths rising to 32, as officials in southwest Georgia’s largest city warned that they’re out of intensive care space, and Georgia’s municipalities were urged to impose more restrictions. The number of positive results surged to 1,026, or 28% over Monday evening’s numbers, with southwest Georgia’s Dougherty County still reporting the highest per-capita numbers, according to the state Department of Public Health. Infections there rose to 90, a rate that’s 10 times as high as Georgia statewide. In Dougherty County, state officials and the Albany hospital are working to create more intensive care and general beds. Georgia lists 10 of its 32 deaths so far in the mostly rural and poor southwest part of the state.
  Honolulu:  The state has recorded its first death from COVID-19. State officials late Monday night said the adult suffered from multiple underlying health conditions. Honolulu Mayor Kirk Caldwell offered condolences in late Monday tweet. “It breaks my heart to hear of the first death on Oahu due to COVID-19. We must continue to act with immediacy to keep this virus at bay and flatten the curve. We are all in this together. Please take care of yourselves and your families. We will get through this,” Caldwell tweeted. The state health department said as of Monday, Hawaii had 77 positive cases with a majority of those on Oahu. Officials expect most travelers simply won’t come to the islands after hearing about the state’s first-in-the-nation plan to fight the coronavirus by requiring arrivals to quarantine themselves for 14 days. Residents will no doubt return, but officials say they’re counting on them to show aloha and follow the new mandate out of concern for their community.
  Boise:  The Idaho State Board of Education has ordered schools statewide to close until at least April  20 in hopes of slowing the spread of the coronavirus. The directive was announced Monday evening, just a short time after Gov. Brad Little said during a press conference that he was not yet ready to make statewide or even additional local closure orders in response to the growing number of Idaho residents confirmed to have contracted COVID-19, the illness caused by the coronavirus. Until Monday evening, Idaho was one of just a few states still leaving the decision of school closures up to local officials. In the closure order, the Idaho State Board of Education said the April  20 date could be pushed further out and said public schools could continue to provide meals and day care services in the meantime. Districts will also work on developing plans for online learning. 
  Chicago:  Union leaders representing workers who have been deemed “essential” as the state battles the coronavirus called Monday for more protective gear to guard members against infection. Kenneth Franklin, head of the Amalgamated Transit Union Local 308, which represents Chicago Transit Authority train engineers, said the agency is adequately cleaning train cars but is paying little attention to air filtering systems. Franklin is calling for a quarantine of workers that would shut down train service, which officials say served about 750,000 riders daily before the COVID-19 outbreak. “I advocate for testing of my members and the environment they’re in if we’re going to move forward,” he said. CTA spokesman Steve Mayberry is dismissing Franklin’s concerns, saying the CTA robustly cleans and disinfects railcars, buses and stations daily. Meanwhile, SEIU Healthcare represents about 90,000 people in nursing homes, child care services and other similar positions. President Greg Kelley said employers must give workers what they need to protect themselves. He said the pandemic has exposed how some nursing homes have built profits by understaffing and neglecting the upkeep of facilities.
  Indianapolis:  Five more deaths were reported Tuesday from the coronavirus-related illness, giving the state a total of 12 as a statewide stay-at-home order is about to take effect. Indiana’s number of confirmed COVID-19 cases grew by 107 to reach a total of 365 across the state, the Indiana State Department of Health reported. Central Indiana has the most confirmed illnesses, with 161 in Indianapolis. Gov. Eric Holcomb on Monday ordered Indiana residents to remain at home for two weeks starting Wednesday, except for workers in essential industries or for necessary trips for food and medicine. Holcomb’s order continues through April  6, but he said it could be extended. It directs residents to stay at home unless their job is an essential function, such as a health care provider; grocery store clerk; police, fire and other first responders; or those working in garbage collection, public transit and key state services. 
  Cedar Rapids:  The city is stopping its transit service at the end of Tuesday to help halt the spread of COVID-19. City Manager Jeff Pomeranz said plans are to resume service April  13. “We have been taking measures to regularly clean and completely sanitize all of our buses daily, but they are still confined spaces that fill with many people throughout the day,” Pomeranz said. “We are at a critical moment to prevent and limit the spread of COVID-19. It’s vital that we take the actions needed to protect our community.” Neighborhood Transportation Service at Horizons will expand service to provide rides to work for those with critical employment at hospitals, grocery stores, care facilities and convenience stores/gas stations. In Des Moines, officials are cutting route frequency and service starting Thursday as ridership continues to drop. Officials said the system still will take people where they need to go but without putting as many drivers at risk. 
  Topeka:  Aircraft parts maker Spirit Aerosystems temporarily suspended production work for Boeing at its Wichita facility Tuesday amid an outbreak of the coronavirus that continues to send shock waves through the economy and has about one-third of Kansas residents in five counties under a shelter-in-place order. The move came after Boeing announced Monday that it was suspending operations at its Seattle-area facilities, also affecting the company’s Wichita site. Meanwhile, Gov. Laura Kelly announced Monday that she will tighten restrictions on public gatherings of more than 10 people. Kelly last week banned gatherings of more than 50 people. Kelly said she is not yet issuing a statewide shelter-in-place order as governors have done in some other states because 89 of Kansas’ 105 counties had yet to see a confirmed coronavirus case as of Monday morning. But she warned that such an order could become “unavoidable in the coming days.”
  Louisville:  A firefighter has tested positive for COVID-19, the mayor’s office announced. The firefighter, whose last shift was Friday, began showing symptoms of illness Sunday, according to a news release from Mayor Greg Fischer. He reported symptoms over the phone Monday and, because he is a first responder, was tested for the virus on the same day. Results came back positive Tuesday. The individual does not live in Jefferson County and is self-isolating in his home, Fischer said. Louisville’s health department is working with his home county’s health officials, along with Louisville Fire officials, to “determine any additional course of action,” the release said. Louisville Fire, along with Metro Police, EMS and Metro Corrections, had already begun to assess employees for symptoms when they report for work. Anyone with a temperature above 100 degrees or other symptoms of COVID-19 will be ordered to return home, officials previously announced.
  Baton Rouge:  The governor on Tuesday asked the White House to declare a major disaster in his state to free up more direct federal aid to cope with the surging coronavirus outbreak, warning that the New Orleans area could run out of hospital beds by early April. Gov. John Bel Edwards’ request to President Donald Trump comes as the number of people in Louisiana confirmed to have the COVID-19 disease caused by the virus surged to nearly 1,200, only two weeks after the state’s first positive test. At least 34 Louisiana residents have died from the disease, according to the state health department. Edwards said with the current rate of increasing virus-related hospitalizations, the New Orleans region – the epicenter of the state’s outbreak – is estimated to run out of hospital capacity to treat patients April  4. To supplement the diminishing hospital space, the state is contracting with hotels to provide additional hospital beds when needed and has converted three state parks into isolation sites that can receive quarantined patients who can’t go home, he said. 
  Portland:  With many workers idled because of the coronavirus, L.L. Bean is going to use its shipping hub to pack food for pantries across the state. The outdoors retailer is partnering with Maine’s largest food bank, Good Shepherd. The company’s workers will sort and package food in boxes that Good Shepherd will ship to food pantries in all 16 counties. Prepackaged boxes reduce the need for pantry volunteers to sort and distribute food, and they make it easier to hand off to families at a time when some pantries are offering drive-by service because of the virus, said Kristen Miale, president of Good Shepherd. The arrangement will reduce Good Shepherd’s reliance on local food pantry volunteers, many of whom are older and should be at home. A trial run started Tuesday with 5,000 boxes. After the food is sorted and packed in L.L. Bean boxes, the food will be returned to Good Shepherd in Auburn for distribution to hundreds of locations.
  Annapolis:  The state reported its fourth death due to the coronavirus Tuesday. The state’s health department said the Prince George’s County resident was in his 60s and suffered from underlying medical conditions. The department also reported Maryland has had at least 349 cases of the virus – 61 more than Monday. It’s the biggest one-day jump in confirmed cases in the state so far. On Tuesday morning, Gov. Larry Hogan visited the Baltimore Convention Center, where the Maryland National Guard is working to create a field hospital to treat people with the virus. Hogan had ordered nonessential businesses to close Monday in response to the coronavirus, as he announced a relief package of more than $175  million to aid small businesses and employees. Meanwhile, after a conference call Monday with the White House with other governors, Hogan, the chairman of the National Governors Association, said the governors are seeking more testing, ventilators and personal protective equipment like masks for health care providers from the federal government. “There’s been a little bit of progress, but not nearly enough and not fast enough,” he said. 
  Boston:  Two organizations that have been providing an outdoor respite for residents feeling cooped up because of the coronavirus pandemic closed their doors to visitors Tuesday. Mass Audubon and the Trustees of Reservations both announced they are shutting down their outdoor facilities in line with Gov. Charlie Baker’s order requiring all nonessential businesses to close for two weeks and the state Department of Health’s stay-at-home advisory. “We know how important it is to get out in nature, and there is nothing we like better than seeing people enjoying our trails,” Mass Audubon President Gary Clayton said in a statement. “But the health and safety of the residents of Massachusetts and beyond must take priority.” He encouraged people to enjoy the outdoors, just close to home. Nine Massachusetts residents have died of COVID-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus, and more then 750 people have confirmed cases, according to state Department of Health numbers released Monday.
  Lansing:  Gov. Gretchen Whitmer warned Tuesday that a Detroit-area hospital system was “almost at capacity” treating people with the coronavirus, as the state’s stay-at-home order kicked in to reduce the spread. The governor, speaking about her measure with WDET-FM, pointed to Beaumont Health, which has eight hospitals in Wayne and Oakland counties and describes itself as Michigan’s largest health care system. “Let’s be very clear: Beaumont Health is almost at capacity right now. We have not seen the worst of it yet,” she said. “The numbers are going to continue to climb.” Nearly 1,800 people have tested positive in Michigan for the coronavirus. Roughly 73% of cases – about 1,300 – are in Wayne County, which is home to Detroit, and adjacent Oakland County. COVID-19 deaths have climbed by nine, to at least 24. Oakland University, which sent students home, has offered its dorms, arena and parking lots to Beaumont for makeshift medical purposes.
  Minneapolis:  Sen. Amy Klobuchar announced Monday that her husband, John Bessler, has tested positive for the coronavirus. The former Democratic presidential candidate said in a statement that Bessler began feeling sick when she was in Minnesota and he was in Washington, D.C., and that he immediately quarantined himself. Klobuchar said it took five days for Bessler to be tested, noting that such delays are a problem facing many. “While my husband is sick and in the hospital because of his oxygen level and his pneumonia, there are so many other people who are in worse shape,” Klobuchar said. Meanwhile, the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in Minnesota rose to 262 on Tuesday, an increase of 27 from the 235 reported the day before. The Minnesota Department of Health said 15 patients were hospitalized as of Tuesday out of a total of 21 since the pandemic reached the state. Health department officials have stressed in recent days that its count includes only laboratory-confirmed cases and that the real total of Minnesotans with the disease is likely much higher.
  Jackson:  Gov. Tate Reeves said Tuesday that he will issue an executive order that further restricts people’s physical interactions to try to slow the spread of the coronavirus, but he is not issuing a stay-at-home order, and it was not immediately clear whether any steps will be taken to enforce the things he is ordering. Reeves faced criticism Monday for saying he didn’t want to “make any decisions that will ultimately do more harm than good” by ordering businesses to close. He said Tuesday that his executive order will tell businesses to allow “every possible employee” to work from home, and it will tell restaurants and bars statewide to close their dining rooms and offer only carry-out or delivery food orders. Some cities and counties have already taken this step. According to figures reported by the state Health Department on Tuesday, Mississippi had at least 320 coronavirus cases and one death as of Monday evening.
  Kansas City:  Two more residents of a southwest Missouri assisted-living center have died from the coronavirus, bringing the number of deaths in the state to eight. The deaths of the two women, one in her 70s and one in her 90s, were announced Tuesday by Clay Goddard, director of the Springfield-Greene County Health Department. They were both residents of Morningside East of Springfield. The death of another resident, in her 80s, was announced late Monday. A fourth woman who also lives at the home remains hospitalized. The center is operated by Five Star Senior Living Inc., which said in a statement on its website that it has implemented several changes in response to the coronavirus crisis: restricting all nonessential visitors, screening employees and essential visitors upon entry, calling off non-medical resident outings and other social events, and keeping residents separated.
  Helena:  The chief justice of the state Supreme Court is asking city and county judges to consider releasing from jail as many offenders as they can to prevent the spread of the new coronavirus. Chief Justice Mike McGrath wrote to judges asking them to review their jail rosters for inmates that could be released. “Because of the high risk of transmittal of COVID-19, not only to prisoners within correctional facilities but staff and defense attorneys as well, we ask that your review your jail rosters and release, without bond, as many prisoners as you are able, especially those being held for non-violent offenses,” McGrath wrote. He previously asked judges to reset civil hearings for cases with hearing dates through at least April  30 and urged prosecutors and defense attorneys to review pending criminal cases to determine if they should go forward and to find ways to delay trials. He also urged courts to conduct as much business as possible via video. 
  Lincoln:  More COVID-19 cases have been reported in five counties, bring Nebraska’s total to 61, a state agency said. The new cases include a man and woman in their 60s who live in Washington County and who recently traveled. The two are in isolation at home, the Nebraska Health and Human Services Department said. New cases also were reported in Cass, Douglas, Madison and Sarpy counties. Earlier Monday, the Legislature advanced an $83.6  million emergency funding package to help fight the outbreak. The money would go for personal protective equipment for government workers, lab testing at the University of Nebraska Medical Center and an ultraviolet light box that would disinfect old face masks so health officials could reuse them. The package also would set aside millions of dollars for expected overtime costs for state workers. 
  Las Vegas:  Two more people have died of the coronavirus in the Las Vegas area, bringing to four the number of deaths in the state, health officials said Monday. Casinos remained closed, most stores were shuttered, popular scenic areas were gated, and the control tower at usually busy McCarran International Airport remained idled in the tourism-dependent region, slowed by requirements to avoid person-to-person contact to stem the spread of COVID-19, the disease caused by the virus. Gov. Steve Sisolak, who used emergency powers Friday to force what he termed nonessential businesses to close, responded to days of questions with a memo Sunday saying that liquor stores have to close under his order. Grocery stores, which also sell beer, wine and liquor, are considered essential and can remain open. Las Vegas police and Clark County business license enforcement officers visited 113 businesses and issued warning letters to 36 over the weekend, police said. Four people received court summonses, and seven businesses were forced to close for refusing to follow the governor’s order.
  Concord:  The city’s homeless have seen their daily routine interrupted with the closing of resource centers and business establishments, two key entities that have long made their lives a little more manageable, the Concord Monitor reports. However, when it comes to hunkering down at night, even at this cold time of year, this community, hidden within the nooks and crannies of the city, might be among the safest segments in society because of its tendency to isolate, no ordinance needed. “My guess is that what would be appropriate is to keep yourself isolated from other people,” said Andy Labrie, who recently retired as an outreach coordinator for the Community Action Program, known as CAP. “With homeless people, the best thing they can do is take a tent and find themselves some place where they can be alone.” CAP has pulled its staff out of the field, for now. Labrie said generally speaking, homeless individuals, who are more likely to suffer from respiratory problems because of their penchant for smoking, are at higher risk to catch the coronavirus because it affects the lungs during its early stages.
  Trenton:  The state has had 17 new deaths stemming from coronavirus, the biggest single-day jump yet, bringing the statewide total to 44, Gov. Phil Murphy said Tuesday. Murphy called the report sobering and said the state has become No.  2 in the nation for positive COVID-19 results, but he said that is the result of much more testing over recent days. The total number of positive cases climbed overnight by more than 800 and stands at nearly 3,700, the governor said. State health officials have recommended calling your health care provider if you have symptoms, including fever and shortness of breath. Officials also point people to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website, which recommends people stay home except to get medical care. 
  Santa Fe:  The State Investment Council on Tuesday approved the creation of a $100  million business recovery fund to help medium-sized businesses meet payroll obligations and avoid layoffs amid the economic turmoil of the coronavirus pandemic. The council overseen by Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham controls a $23  billion portfolio of endowments that support public education. It voted unanimously to channel assets from the state’s Severance Tax Permanent Fund toward economic recovery loans. The governor and state health officials have shut down nonessential businesses unless employees can work from home, banned dine-in restaurant service and limited occupancy at hotels in an effort to slow the spread of the coronvirus. Gatherings of more than five people are prohibited. At least 83 residents of New Mexico have tested positive for the virus. 
  New York:  Gov. Andrew Cuomo sounded his most dire warning yet about the coronavirus pandemic Tuesday, saying the infection rate is accelerating, and the state could be as close as two weeks away from a crisis that sees 40,000 people in intensive care. Such a surge would overwhelm hospitals, which now have just 3,000 intensive care unit beds statewide. The rate of new infections, Cuomo said, is doubling about every three days. While officials once thought the peak in New York would come in early May, they now say it could come in two to three weeks. “We are not slowing it. And it is accelerating on its own,” he said during a briefing at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, which will be transformed into a COVID-19 hospital. “One of the forecasters said we were looking at a freight train coming across the country. We’re now looking at a bullet train.” There have been more than 25,000 positive cases in New York state and at least 210 deaths, according to state figures.
  Raleigh:  The state government is sticking for now with incremental expanded business closings, tightened assembly limitations and health care system preparations to blunt the spread of the new coronavirus. Gov. Roy Cooper issued new orders this week closing several categories of entertainment and personal service establishments by late Wednesday afternoon. Schools are now closed through mid-May, and gatherings of more than 50 will now be unlawful. Previously schools were being closed for two weeks, and the mass assembly threshold was over 100. “Clearly this is an unprecedented situation for the people of our state,” Gov. Roy Cooper said Tuesday during a conference call with other statewide elected executive branch officials known as the Council of State. The number of positive cases counted by state health officials Tuesday was roughly 400, or a one-third increase from Monday.
  Fargo:  North Dakota could be one of the last states to lift restrictions meant to help contain the coronavirus, mainly because it’s part of the final wave of the pandemic, Republican Gov. Doug Burgum said Tuesday. President Donald Trump said earlier in the day that he would like the U.S. economy to begin revving up by Easter, when he believes it might be possible to relax some of the federal restrictions and put some people back to work. Burgum said it wouldn’t make sense to pick one date for every state. “I think it’s difficult for us. We’re on the tail end of this pandemic. It’s moving across the world,” Burgum said. “We maybe put on controls later than some places … and that may mean we have to keep them on longer in North Dakota than other places that are relaxing them.” Burgum has restricted restaurants and bars to delivery and takeout service and has closed several recreational businesses like health clubs and movie theaters. Many small shops have shut down on their own. He has not issued a stay-at-home order.
  Columbus:  The fate of the remaining school year, including graduation requirements and state-mandated testing, is among the top issues before lawmakers planning a return to the Capitol this week to address challenges posed by the coronavirus. Concluding the March  17 primary – currently rescheduled for June  2 – suspending evictions and foreclosures, prohibiting utility cutoffs and creating a grace period for people unable to renew their driver’s licenses with almost all BMVs shut down are also high on the priority list of lawmakers and Gov. Mike DeWine. The GOP-controlled House and Senate are both scheduled to meet Wednesday and Thursday. Lawmakers would have to suspend rules to pass legislation on an emergency basis without the normal schedule of committee hearings. Much of the coming legislation will involve flexibility in dealing with the pandemic, DeWine said Monday. Senate President Larry Obhof said lawmakers must deal only with “issues that are time-sensitive or directly address needs created by the pandemic.” 
  Oklahoma City:  A Cleveland County woman in her 60s has become the state’s third coronavirus-related death, and the number of confirmed cases continues to climb, state health officials said Tuesday. The Oklahoma State Department of Health reported the number of people who have tested positive for the virus has climbed to 106 in 19 counties, but because of a shortage of available testing kits, health officials say the actual number is likely much higher. Gov. Kevin Stitt said Sunday that the state will begin operating mobile testing sites in Kay, Pittsburg, Oklahoma and Tulsa counties, but the department said Tuesday that those sites are not yet operational. Stitt has not yet called for statewide closure of certain businesses, like bars and restaurants, despite increasing calls to do so from state and health officials.
  Portland:  Gov. Kate Brown ordered Oregonians to stay home Monday and banned all nonessential gatherings and travel to try to slow the spread of the new coronavirus after crowds of people descended on the state’s beach towns and hiking trails over the weekend despite pleas to stay home. The crowds prompted several coastal towns to order nonresidents out and shut down hotels and short-term rentals. More than two dozen mayors of cities in the Portland metropolitan area also petitioned Brown over the weekend to take stricter action on social distancing. Brown said she was particularly upset to see Oregonians flocking to places such as Smith Rock State Park and the Columbia River Gorge. “I started by asking Oregonians to stay home and practice social distancing. Then I urged the public to follow these recommendations. Instead, thousands crowded the beaches of our coastal communities, our trails, our parks, and our city streets, potentially spreading COVID-19 and endangering the lives of others across the state,” she said Monday. “Now, I’m ordering it. To save lives and protect our community.”
  Harrisburg:  Hospitals, nursing homes and child care centers are asking the state government for more money to avoid closures amid a surge of coronavirus-related demands on staffing and equipment, and Pennsylvania’s corrections officers’ union wants the prison system to stop all transfers of inmates. The demands came as the new coronavirus continued to spread in Pennsylvania, with the state reporting more than 200 more cases and another death. Meanwhile, more businesses are challenging Gov. Tom Wolf’s order closing the physical locations of businesses determined to be “non-life-sustaining.” In the meantime, Wolf has ordered schools closed through at least April  6 and ordered 5.5  million people in the state’s hardest-hit counties to stay home, other than going to work at a business that’s still open or another errand involving health and safety. 
  Providence:  Rhode Island-based retailer Ocean State Job Lot has donated $250,000 to buy protective equipment and cleaning supplies in response to the coronavirus pandemic. The supplies will be donated to local and state governments, as well as hospital and medical facilities, the North Kingstown company said Tuesday. “COVID-19 is affecting all of us in every community and Ocean State Job Lot is prepared to do its part to help,” David Sarlitto, executive director of the Ocean State Job Lot Charitable Foundation, said in a statement. “Our unique buying process allows us the flexibility to move swiftly and purchase the items most in need,” including gloves, masks, disinfectants, sanitizers and eye protection, he said. Customers can also contribute at any of the chain’s nearly 140 stores across the northeast U.S.
  Columbia:  All state parks in South Carolina are closing Wednesday and Thursday as officials figure out and implement new policies to help control the spread of the coronavirus. Most of the 47 state parks across South Carolina were busier than usual over the weekend, with a combination of nice spring weather and people who wanted to get outdoors after a week of social distancing from COVID-19. But that led to lines at fee booths and large groups congregating in some places that had to be broken up by police. The parks plan to reopen Friday, the South Carolina Department of Parks, Recreation & Tourism said in a statement. There could be new rules on admission and other policies that will be announced later, officials said. About three-quarters of South Carolina’s 46 counties have at least one COVID-19 case.
  Sioux Falls:  Gov. Kristi Noem said Tuesday that the state may be as much as eight weeks away from the peak of the COVID-19 crisis and needs to limit business activity, even as President Donald Trump considers relaxing national guidance. “This situation is not going to be over in a week. … We have another eight weeks until we see our peak infection rate,” Noem told reporters. The Republican governor said she’ll continue to support restrictions on businesses and social gatherings. She expects infections to increase and is bracing the state’s health care system for a surge of patients. She ordered schools to remain closed and state employees to work from home until at least May. When asked if she is considering lifting her executive order that recommends businesses to limit gatherings to 10 or fewer people, she said she hasn’t ordered any businesses to close. The move to ask, rather than demand, that businesses and municipalities self-regulate has irked some mayors who are calling for statewide enforcement.
  Nashville:  The Great Smoky Mountains National Park is shutting down for two weeks in an effort to help stop the spread of the new coronavirus, according to a news release from the park. The nation’s most visited national park has been attempting to comply with the Centers for Disease Control’s guidance for social distancing. However, about 30,000 people entered the park each day last week, and some popular sites like Laurel Falls, Newfound Gap and Cades Cove were congested, according to the release. The two-week closure began Tuesday at noon and will continue through April  6. It includes all trails and roads with the exception of Foothills Parkway and the Spur, a section of U.S. Highway 441 that runs over park land. During the closure period, visitors can view the park through webcams. Park rangers can still help answer questions via email or phone during business hours. 
  Houston:  Leaders in Houston and Austin on Tuesday joined a growing a list of Texas cities that have urged people to shelter in place to slow the spread of the coronavirus. Fort Worth and El Paso also announced similar orders Tuesday. The announcements come as Gov. Greg Abbott has declined to issue a statewide shelter-in-place order. And the state’s lieutenant governor said Monday night that the U.S. should get back to work in the face of global pandemic and that people over the age of 70, who the Centers for Disease Control says are at higher risk for the coronavirus, will “take care of ourselves.” Republican Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick made the comments while appearing on Fox News’ “Tucker Carlson Tonight.” Patrick, 69, went on the program after President Donald Trump said earlier Monday that he wanted the country getting back to business in weeks, not months. Patrick went on to suggest that there were lots of grandparents like him and that he doesn’t “want the whole country to be sacrificed.”
  Salt Lake City:  A man who died from the coronavirus had visited a Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints temple in the week prior to his diagnosis, church officials said. The temple in Bountiful, north of Salt Lake City, was closed Sunday after state health officials announced the man’s death. It wasn’t immediately clear how many people had visited the temple at the same time as the man or in the days before it was closed. County health officials are tracing with whom the man might have come in contact, Utah Health Department spokesman Tom Hudachko said Tuesday. The man who died was in his 60s and is believed to have have been infected with the coronavirus while traveling, health officials have said. He is Utah’s only death due to COVID-19. Generally speaking, people are considered to be at an elevated risk if they spent 10 minutes or more within 6  feet of a person who is symptomatic, Hudachko said. 
  Montpelier:  The Vermont National Guard is helping to set up three overflow medical facilities as the state prepares for an increase in patients due to the new coronavirus. The facilities will be at Gutterson Fieldhouse at the University of Vermont, the Barre Municipal Auditorium, and Collins Perley Sports and Fitness Center in St. Albans, the Guard said Tuesday. The sites will be for the least sick who can be moved out of hospitals safely. As of Monday, the Vermont Health Department was reporting a total of 75 positive cases of COVID-19 in the state and five deaths, four of which were related to a Burlington care facility. Vermonters should prepare for more restrictions to help stem the pandemic that is sweeping the state and the world, Gov. Phil Scott said Monday. Meanwhile, an employee at the Newport prison has tested positive for COVID-19, the Department of Corrections said.
  Lynchburg:  Local officials said Tuesday that they were fielding complaints about the hundreds of students who have returned from their spring break to Liberty University, where President Jerry Falwell Jr. has welcomed them back amid the coronavirus pandemic. “We could not be more disappointed in the action that Jerry took in telling students they could come back and take their online classes on campus,” Lynchburg City Manager Bonnie Svrcek said. As colleges across the country began announcing campus closures earlier this month, Liberty, which is among the nation’s largest and most prominent evangelical institutions, initially planned to continue on-campus instruction. But last week, after Gov. Ralph Northam restricted gatherings of more than 100, Liberty said it would transition most classes online effective Monday. Residential students were told they were “welcome” to return to campus, according to an email sent to students.
  Olympia:  Gov. Jay Inslee on Monday ordered nonessential businesses to close and the state’s more than 7  million residents to stay home unless necessary in order to slow the spread of COVID-19. The stay-at-home order is initially in place through April  6, though officials said it will be reassessed at that time and could be extended. “This is a human tragedy on a scale we cannot yet project. It’s time to hunker down in order to win this fight,” Inslee said during a televised address. All businesses other than those deemed essential – a long list that includes grocery stores, pharmacies, banks and gas stations – will need to close by Wednesday night. All public and private social, spiritual and recreational gatherings are also now banned, including weddings and funerals. As of Monday, more than 2,200 coronavirus cases have been confirmed in the state, and at least 110 people have died. 
  Charleston:  Gov. Jim Justice has ordered residents to stay inside and close all nonessential businesses to stem the spread of the coronavirus. The Republican’s executive order, which went into effect at 8  p.m. Tuesday, says people can leave their homes for food, medicine and other essential items. Businesses deemed essential – hospitals, take-away or delivery restaurants, banks and grocery stores – can stay open, while nonessential places such as gyms or theaters must close. At least 20 people in West Virginia have tested positive for the virus, state health officials said. Justice had declined to order this kind of broad lockdown during a rambling statewide address Saturday, later saying health experts did not feel it was necessary at the time. He said that changed, and one of the tipping points was the report of a virus case caused by community spread, rather than from travel. He did not set an end date on the order. 
  Madison:  Gov. Tony Evers issued a sweeping order Tuesday closing nonessential businesses, banning gatherings of any size and imposing monthlong travel restrictions in an attempt to slow the spread of the coronavirus. Without changes to limit the spread of COVID-19, models show that up to 1,000 people in the state could die, and more than 22,000 would contract the virus by April  8, exceeding the number of hospital beds, said state Department of Health Services Secretary Andrea Palm. Health officials had previously estimated that of the people who test positive for the virus, 10% would require hospitalization. On Tuesday, Dr. Ryan Westergaard, Wisconsin’s chief medical officer for communicable diseases, said that figure was actually closer to 20%. “If we do them well, they’re going to seem like tremendous overreactions,” Westergaard said of the closures and limitations. “That’s really our goal.” 
  Cheyenne:  The Wyoming Democratic Party will postpone its presidential selection vote count by three weeks and will only accept mail-in ballots to avoid disruptions from potential new coronavirus restrictions, state party spokeswoman Nina Hebert said Monday. Participants might not be able to drop off ballots if Wyoming or any of its cities enacted a stay-at-home order, Hebert said. “We can’t take a chance,” Hebert said. “We have to prepare for that possibility. It would be irresponsible not to prepare for that.” This year’s tally was to be a combination of caucusing, drop-off voting and mail voting, but party officials previously canceled in-person caucusing set for April  4 to avoid creating crowds that could spread coronavirus. Now the party has canceled drop-off voting as well. 
  From USA TODAY Network and wire reports 
 