Researchers in the US and across the world are working on possible coronavirus vaccines. Here's what we know about where some pharmaceutical companies stand in the process: 
  AstraZeneca 
  Pfizer 
  Moderna 
  But will these vaccines be safe?  A number of representatives from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies testified before Congress yesterday. When asked whether the speed at which they are moving to develop a Covid-19 vaccine could influence the safety of the vaccines, they insisted that was not the case.
  Meanwhile, Dr. Anthony Fauci, the nation's leading infectious disease expert, today said teams "are going as quickly as we possibly can” on vaccine development while still being safe. 
  “If you want to do it correctly, with safety, and real attention to safety and efficacy, I think we are going as fast as we possibly can,” Fauci said.
  A federal judge denied a blanket motion to release families in Immigration and Customs Enforcement custody as a result of the coronavirus pandemic, according to a Wednesday ruling. 
  Immigration advocates and lawyers have urged the Trump administration to release families who are in federal immigration custody, given the confined setting and potential spread of coronavirus. In a separate lawsuit in California, a federal judge found that ICE’s Covid-19 protocols fell short and ordered the release of children. That case set up the potential that children could be separated from their families.
  But the case before Judge James Boasberg in Washington, DC, called for the release of families, not just children. He didn’t agree with the plaintiffs' request to release everyone.
  In a 26-page ruling, Boasberg detailed the precautions taken by the government, like mask use, and addressed issues raised by plaintiffs, like lack of social distancing and medical care. Despite recognizing steps taken by ICE and shortfalls alleged by plaintiffs, Boasberg said other options, outside of blanket release, need to be considered.
  Attorneys for the families are reviewing their options.  
  
  
  New York's Metropolitan Transportation Authority said it needs more money from the federal government in order to continue operating. 
  In a statement, the agency said the Covid-19 pandemic has decimated its revenue across all areas and has caused “the most challenging” budget crisis for the agency, a release says. 
  The agency — which operates New York City's subway system as well as buses, commuter rails, bridges and tunnels in the area — is requesting the US Senate give it at least $3.9 billion to get through the end of the year and $10.3bBillion to get through 2021, the release says. 
  The agency plans on undertaking the largest cost-cutting actions in the agency’s history by reducing overtime, consultant contracts and non-labor expenses, the release said.
  Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker said today that the state is reporting nearly 1,600 new Covid-19 cases, its highest one-day total in the month of July. 
  Illinois has reported a total of 165,301 cases since the pandemic began, according to the Department of Public Health (IDPH), and 7,347 total deaths. 
  Pritzker said the state also set a new record for tests, surpassing 40,000 tests in three of the last seven days. Illinois has conducted over 2.3 million tests during the pandemic. IDPH said that  positivity rate  over the past week is at 3.2%
  Pritzker urged residents of the state to wear masks, saying that it doesn’t take long to reverse the progress made in getting the positivity rate down. However, he said that the numbers appear to be gradually rising and that it’s a concern. 
  Pritzker said that he is counting on leaders throughout the state to do what they know is right to protect the residents. He also said they want local residents to hold elected leaders accountable as well to keep the numbers down. 
  Note: These numbers were released by the Illinois Department of Public Health and may not line up exactly in real time with CNN’s database drawn from Johns Hopkins University and the Covid Tracking Project. 
    
  New Jersey reported 390 new positive Covid-19 test results on Wednesday, bringing the statewide total to 177,645 cases since the pandemic began in March, Gov. Phil Murphy announced on Wednesday. 
  However, Murphy noted that the state is still experiencing a data distortion due to the stress on labs to process test results, so that number could be higher. 
  The daily  positivity rate  in the state was 2.48% on Wednesday, and the reported rate of transmission was .9%, but Murphy said that both he and State Health Commissioner Judy Persichilli believed that the transmission rate number was being impacted by the data issues and so could also be higher. 
  The state reported at least 24 new Covid-19 related fatalities on Wednesday. The confirmed total of Covid-19 fatalities in the state is 13,787, and the state is also reporting an additional 1,920 probable Covid-19 deaths. 
  Murphy kicked off his news conference Wednesday by issuing a sharp rebuke of the latest round of federal coronavirus aid as it currently stands. 
  “This is a slap in the face of every governor across the country, Republican and Democrat who have shouldered the responsibility of responding to this pandemic,” Murphy said. 
  NOTE: The numbers listed were released by the New Jersey Governor’s office and may not line up exactly in real time with CNN’s database drawn from Johns Hopkins University and the Covid Tracking Project. 
  There have been at least 3,919,550 cases of coronavirus in the US since the start of the pandemic, and at least 142,350 people have died, according to  Johns Hopkins University 's tally of cases.
  The totals include cases from all 50 states, the District of Columbia and other US territories, as well as repatriated cases. 
  As of Wednesday at 1:00 p.m ET, Johns Hopkins has reported 20,339 new cases and 355 reported deaths.  
  
  Hear more: 
  
  
  
  Spain recorded 730 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, the highest number since May 8, data from the country's health ministry showed on Wednesday. The total number of cases in Spain has now reached 267,551.
  Spanish Health Minister Salvador Illa confirmed on Wednesday that there were a total of 224 active outbreaks in the country, “most of them under control, including the one in Lleida which is now considered controlled.”
  The director of the Center for Health Emergencies, Fernando Simon, explained last week that the new cases were increasingly associated with younger people.
  The county's Covid-19 death toll rose by two in the last 24 hours and 12 in the last seven days. A total of 28,426 people have died from coronavirus in Spain.
  Ignacio Aguado, the vice president of Madrid's regional government, said the regional government is considering making masks mandatory in all public places also in the capital. Madrid and the Canary Islands are the only two regions in the country where masks are not mandatory when the safety distance can be respected.
  The regional government's health councillor will meet the health minister on Thursday to debate further measures to contain the spread of the virus, including measures for Madrid's airport.
  "New measures in Madrid will depend on the outcome of that meeting," Aguado added.
  
  
  
  Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator Peter Gaynor acknowledged testing capacity is “stressed” in some places during a House Homeland Security Committee  hearing.
  He said there is no shortage of swabs or media for coronavirus testing, the items his agency is responsible for overseeing, but added that testing is "stressed in locations that have increased cases, increased hospitalizations."
  "There is no doubt about it," Gaynor said when asked by Rep. Max Rose, a Democrat from New York.
  He went on to describe the four activities needed to "crush Covid-19."
  “There are some fundamentals that we all have to do, wear a mask, socially distance, stay away from large crowds, don’t go into bars and good hygiene. If we do those four things, we can continue to crush Covid-19,” Gaynor said.
  
  Massachusetts Gov. Charlie Baker held his coronavirus briefing today from a Salvation Army location in Lynn. The governor applauded the Salvation Army for distributing 8 million meals to families in Massachusetts since March.
  Before the pandemic, the Salvation Army was helping 70 families a day and now they are helping 500 families a day, Baker said. 
  Baker reported 143 new cases of coronavirus as of yesterday, which brings the total number of cases in the state to at least 107,000. At least 513 people are hospitalized for Covid-19, with 63 of those patients in the ICU, Baker said. The seven-day average for positive tests remains at about 1.7%, he added. 
  One thing to note:  These numbers were released by the Massachusetts governor and may not line up exactly in real time with CNN’s database drawn from Johns Hopkins University and the Covid Tracking Project. 
    
 