
  
  Asked about what went wrong with the state’s coronavirus cases, California State Senator Dr. Richard Pan, a Democrat, told CNN's Kate Bolduan that “people got complacent."
  Pan said reopening may have given people the impression that the virus was going away. The politicization of the virus also may have shifted focus away from fighting the virus when public health officials should be delivering the message. 
  Pan slammed President Trump's response, urging him to have his public health experts speak to the press.  
  “He needs to put his public health people in front, talking about what we need to do and he needs to support them. For example, the CDC has been completely silenced. Experts at the CDC who spoke out early are now not permitted to talk to the press,” said Pan. 
  He pointed out that Dr. Deborah Birx and Dr. Anthony Fauci, members of the White House coronavirus task force, “tend to play second fiddle to the President.”
  “We need to stop politicizing this pandemic," Pan said.
  He said closing some bars and locations is helpful but he appealed to people’s use of free will to decide how they impact others. 
  With the holiday weekend looming, Pan had a message for Americans: “Let’s be sure we have freedom from this disease. Let’s be sure we protect each other. And we need our public health officials to be up front, educating us, and what we need to do to stop this pandemic.”
  The UK has “adequate supplies” of  the antiviral drug remdesivir , England’s Deputy Chief Medical Officer Jonathan Van-Tam told lawmakers Wednesday.
  Van-Tam was speaking to the House of Commons Science and Technology Committee after the United States bought 100% of the production of the drug, which has been shown to have some effect against coronavirus.
  He said that although quantities of the drug will be “less plentiful” and “less easy to obtain,” the UK has “adequate supplies” of the treatment drug.
  Some background : Clinical trials suggest that the antiviral drug helped reduce the length of coronavirus patient hospital stays.
  The UK has not yet conducted its own formal assessment of the drug, which has been recommended for European authorization by the European Medicines Agency.
  Van-Tam said the UK Task Force had been keeping “a very close eye” on the progress of trials elsewhere. Remdesivir is currently available for emergency use by clinicians in UK hospitals.
  He also spoke of the UK’s successful clinical trials of the  steroid dexamethasone , saying that the government task force made the decision to gather supplies weeks before a successful outcome to put the UK “in the best possible position.”
  Van-Tam called the dexamethasone trials “the most dramatic success in terms of active success and rapid recruitment,” hailing the drug as an “extremely cheap” and “accessible” form of treatment.
  “Depending on which medicine you discover works for Covid-19, if it’s one of the ones that is already licensed for something else, then it tends to be plentifully available. But if it’s something brand spanking new from a developer it is likely to be in short supply in the first instance,” he added. 
  The mayor of Lakeway, Texas, a city in the Lake Travis area outside Austin, is asking teens who attended a June 20 party known as "Pong Fest" to self-isolate as the Covid-19 case rate continues to climb in the area.   
  Cox said there were a number of infected students at the party, some of whom "didn't know they were positive until after the party.”
  The Austin Public Health Department (APH) said the gathering included "up to 300 teenagers" and confirmed to CNN that a number "have now received positive test results." 
  "We are asking that participation in gatherings be mentioned for contact tracing purposes when people are getting tested," Shelly Parks, spokesperson for the Austin Homeland Security & Emergency Management, said Wednesday in a statement to CNN. "Epidemiologists are asking that participation in gatherings be mentioned during their contact tracing investigations because the virus often hides in the healthy and is given to those who are at grave risk of being hospitalized or dying." 
  Parks said because of medical privacy law known as HIPAA, the agency would not be disclosing the number of cases resulting from Pong Fest.  
  Lakeway has had 105 cases, 50 of which are currently active, Cox said.  
  "This is the highest point we have been in our area," Cox said during a Facebook Live event on June 25. "Unfortunately our case load is probably going to increase."  
  Cox, who made repeated calls in her June 25 Facebook Live for her constituents to wear masks and socially distance, said the city has been working with the local hospital, Baylor Scott & White, to ensure both the party-goers and anyone they have interacted with get tested.  
  Personal behavior is the key to controlling the coronavirus outbreak, a top US federal coronavirus official said Wednesday.
  “Testing is critical, but we cannot test our way out of the current outbreaks,” Dr. Admiral Brett Giroir, assistant secretary for health at the US Department of Health and Human Services, said during a telephone briefing on Wednesday.
  Giroir said people 35 and under are “driving the current outbreak in many states, likely with a asymptomatic transmission.”
  He said people must wear masks, wash their hands and avoid crowds.
  Jackson Health System in Miami, Florida, said it will pause all elective and non-emergency surgeries as a result of the rise in Covid-19 cases. 
  The health system said it will begin limiting inpatient surgeries and procedures starting on Monday, according to a statement.
  Jackson Health cited a steady increase in the number of infected patients being admitted to its hospitals as the reason for the decision. 
  "Our clinical leadership has been working diligently throughout this pandemic to ensure that safety of our patients and employees is paramount." the hospital said. 
  Florida has been seeing an increase in coronavirus cases, and the state reported more than 9,500 new cases on Saturday alone. 
  Here's a look at the breakdown of new cases across Florida: 
  Despite multiple, significant Covid-19-related challenges this Spring in  beef and pork production , the US Meat Export Federation (USMEF) said those industries are rebounding significantly.  
  USMEF President Dan Halstrom said that processing facilities around the US “have done a lot of work within the supply chain on enhancements and improvements in response to Covid-19.” He made the remarks in an audio clip published this week in the trade publication Farm Journal.
  He stated that for the week ending June 27, the USMEF experienced “dramatic rebounds” with their members' slaughter rates, over 680,000 cattle, with a 4% increase from the week before and 1% above the same time in 2019.
  The USMEF is a trade association that promotes the beef, pork and lamb industries, both domestically and internationally.
   
  
  
  The World Health Organization is working to verify reports that the United States is hoarding the antiviral coronavirus drug  remdesivir . 
  What is this about:  On Monday, the US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)  announced  that it had secured 100% of drug-maker Gilead's projected production for July, and 90% of its production for August and September, plus more for clinical trials.
  “Obviously, there are many people around the world who are very sick with this disease and we want to ensure that everybody has access to the necessary lifesaving interventions,” Ryan said.  
  “We are fully committed as an organization, and with our partners to equitable access to life saving interventions,” he added.  
  Ryan said WHO continues to work with the United States — even though President Trump has said he has split with the organization. “We are grateful for and continue to engage with our technical counterparts in the United States on all matters related to science and public health,” he said. 
  Speaking directly about the remdesivir situation and WHO’s contact with the United States, WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said, “We’re in contact and we’re still discussing and there are collaborations. It’s not specific to one thing that you raised, but on many issues.” 
  
  Dr. Craig Spencer, director of Global Health in Emergency Medicine at New York-Presbyterian Medical Center, says that the White House has failed in its response to the coronavirus pandemic. 
  Spencer said he thinks the coronavirus response should be taken out of the hands of the White House and given to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
  “We need new leadership; we need it now. Otherwise, more Americans will continue to be infected and die of this virus in the next coming months and maybe the next couple of years,” he said. 
  Spencer said he saw firsthand the devastating effects of the coronavirus in New York City, and he predicts more deaths in states currently seeing surges in the virus. 
  “A lot of places and a lot of politicians aren't taking this seriously, and I'm really worried because I know what comes next. I know what happens after you have a huge increase in cases. People continue to stream through the ER doors, into the ICUs, and will unfortunately die of this virus until we take this seriously,” he said. 
  
  
  Asked about how the implementation of the  state's traveler quarantine  is working so far, Gov. Andrew Cuomo described the process being used to ensure that those coming to New York from states where Covid-19 is surging are following the rules of the new travel advisory.
  Cuomo said the state is working with the airlines to give passengers upon landing a slip to fill out stating where they came from and where they are going. 
  These papers are then collected by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and the information is then entered into a database. Random checks are being done on these travelers. People could be asked to show their surroundings of the room you are in to make sure it’s a residence and then on a second check, it has to be the same surroundings, the governor said.
  Asked if the quarantine has been effective, Cuomo said the state has not had a person test positive after coming in to the state post-quarantine. In other words, no one has traveled to the state after the quarantine was implemented who then went to a clinic or hospital sick and ultimately, tested positive.
  Some more context:  Last week, New York announced a joint travel advisory — along with Connecticut and New Jersey — mandating that anyone traveling to the region from a state where coronavirus cases are spiking to quarantine for 14 days upon arrival. 
  As of Wednesday, 16 states are on the quarantine list, according to Cuomo.
 