President Trump spent dozens of hours in March and April in those interminable  coronavirus  briefings. Dozens of hours soaking up the terminology of the scourge. Dozens of hours watching scientists say a word or two about mitigation, containment, treatment and so on. Dozens of hours testing dodges, falsehoods and lies against the questions of assembled reporters sitting in a socially distanced seating array.
  Thus emerged Coronavirus Briefing Man, the beast faced by ABC News anchor David Muir in an interview from Arizona that aired on Tuesday evening. A distilled, greatest-hits version of the distortions of the coronavirus briefings — Trump stopped doing them shortly after riffing about disinfectants as a treatment for covid-19 — emerged in the interview. “Well, I think actually the decision to close the country was the biggest decision I’ve ever had to make, and I’ve said that very loud and clear. I mean, we had the  greatest economy in history , in the history of the world, not only our economy, it was our greatest economy.” (Bolding added to highlight a  falsehood repeated by Trump more than 250 times .)
  Anyone who watched one or two of the coronavirus briefings, too, would recognize these statements from Trump in his  chat with Muir :
  The point here is that Trump doesn’t surprise anyone with his rebuttals. It’s easy to see them coming, because he repeats them over and over. He once told Billy Bush, in fact, that bald conveyance of bogus information is a proven tactic. “Billy, look, look, you just tell them and they believe it. That’s it, you just tell them and they believe it. They just do,”  said Trump  years ago when confronted about false claims regarding his TV show’s ratings.
  Nearly five years into the Trump era, there’s little excuse for having poor comebacks to Trump’s telegraphed nonsense. Yet Muir’s session with Trump was filled with blown opportunity after blown opportunity to apprise the president of the truth.
  One exchange was particularly maddening.  Here it is :
  Let’s zero in on this claim about the tests, and how the previous administration “left us nothing.” There’s nothing at all new about this claim, nor is there anything new about its debunking.  Vox swiped at it  just last week after CNN’s Jim Acosta busted Trump on the ridiculousness of blaming the previous administration on testing failures for a virus that didn’t even exist yet!
  PolitiFact  awarded its “Pants on Fire” rating  to a similar claim that Trump made on March 30 in the comfy confines of a “Fox & Friends” interview. Which is to say: This lie has been out there for  months , and it has been paired with stories appropriately discrediting it. Where was Muir for all that?
  Now in fairness to Muir, he did ask a follow-up about this business of restocking the cupboard:
  On social media and elsewhere, Muir is taking some heat for his performance.  In the “Reliable Sources” newsletter , CNN’s Oliver Darcy ripped away: “Muir allowed the President to float brazen misinformation with no pushback to his 10 million+ viewers.” Indeed: That viewership is far larger than the 3 to 5 million that a similar setup would have fetched on Fox News, where Trump has done most of his one-on-one interviews of late.
  Post contributor Hugh Hewitt last week argued that Trump should turn toward one-on-one interviews to  boost his pandemic messaging game :
  Yes — especially when reality’s greatest hawkers aren’t on the case.
  * Correction: An earlier version of this post misspelled the first name of Bret Baier.  
  Watch more of Erik Wemple: 
  Read more from Erik Wemple :
  After MeToo scandals, NBC News gets a new top boss — another guy 
  RNC chair proposes punishing outlets that failed to press Joe Biden on sexual assault claim 
  Kayleigh McEnany promises reporters: ‘I will never lie to you’ 
  MSNBC, Biden and the ‘home team’ interview 
  Tucker Carlson eviscerates Democrats over Tara Reade double standard 
 