Washington-area leaders slammed President Trump on Tuesday for defying health experts by calling for the United States to  return to normal by Easter , and announced plans to further restrict business and improvise solutions for medical equipment and bed space as the coronavirus outbreak claimed more lives.
  D.C. Mayor Muriel E. Bowser (D), who has largely refrained from criticizing Trump, said the city is fighting  coronavirus  “absent any national direction” and condemned the president’s about-face.
  “Clearly it is alarming to hear the president say that — without medical and health guidance — that he would put the economy and starting the economy ahead of saving lives,” said Bowser, who ordered the closure of nonessential businesses as of 10 p.m. Wednesday, following  similar orders  in Maryland and Virginia on Monday. She also lowered the threshold for prohibited mass gatherings from 50 people to 10.
  “While we are confronting and trying to blunt the spread of the virus in our city, we are also looking ahead on how we are going to recover from this,” Bowser said. “And we think the president has to do that, too.”
  Bowser has extended the closure of D.C. schools and the ban on mass gatherings through the end of April so health officials can determine whether social distancing measures are working. “I think it would be, based on everything that I’ve read and been advised, premature to go back to normal before we have seen a blunting of the curve in the United States,” she said.
  In Maryland, where a Prince George’s County man became the state’s fourth virus-related fatality, Gov. Larry Hogan (R) said the messaging coming out of the White House was “pretty confusing” and didn’t seem to match up with actions by the federal and state governments.
  “We don’t think we are going to be in any way out of this in five or six days or so, or whenever this 15 days is up, from the time they started this imaginary clock,” Hogan said in an interview on CNN.
  In Virginia, which announced three coronavirus-related deaths Tuesday, Gov. Ralph Northam (D) also took issue with Trump’s comments, saying residents need to understand the need for continued sacrifice and not hear “mixed messages.”
  “We all want our lives to return to normal as fast as possible, but I think we have to use science, we have to use data . . .  and really do what’s in the best interest — in our case — of Virginians,” Northam said at his daily news briefing.
  “While it would be nice to say that this really will be behind us in two weeks, that’s really not what the data tells us,” Northam, who is a physician, continued. “The data tells us that this will be with us for at least two to three months and perhaps even longer. So again, while our intentions are to get back to normal, I think we have to be realistic.”
  Health officials in Montgomery County, at a briefing with county lawmakers, also slammed Trump’s remarks. Chief health officer Travis Gayles, who has been praised as a calm voice during the outbreak, described the president’s comments as “recklessly irresponsible, not based upon fact and, quite frankly, disgusting.”
  Gayles said that the suburban county of 1 million people would not pull back from strict social distancing measures and that regional health officers are developing their own guidelines on coronavirus. Officials said they are looking to try test kits used in other countries because of a lack of federal support.
  “We’re not waiting for the feds to step up,” said Gayles. “We’ve known that they’re just not, so we’re not waiting for that to happen.”
  Faced with growing demand for medical equipment and services, the area’s leaders took steps to improvise solutions.
  Hogan toured the Baltimore Convention Center on Tuesday, where officials said 250 beds will be set up as part of Maryland’s plan to add 6,000 hospital beds to accommodate a surge in coronavirus patients.
  The massive facility can hold up to three times that many beds if needed, Hogan said. He said the Federal Emergency Management Agency will deliver beds to the convention center, possibly in as little as 24 or 48 hours — although he added that nothing from the federal government seems to be arriving on time.
  “I’m anxious to see this get done,” Hogan said, standing in front of Maryland National Guard Humvees, which will help move gear. “This is going to save lives.”
  The state’s plan is to use the site for covid-19 patients who need treatment but do not require space in intensive-care units, officials said. It will be run by the nearby Johns Hopkins Health and the University of Maryland Medical System, both of which could take patients in need of hospitalization.
  “There are places around the country that are looking at tents,” Hogan said. “This is a lot better than a lot of situations we’re seeing. . . .  It’s not a hospital, but it’s close.”
  Hogan said Tuesday that he cannot predict when the expected surge of covid-19 patients will happen or how big it will be. He said the state health department is still doing contact tracing — focusing on health-care workers and first responders — but has started to become overwhelmed by the number of reported positive cases.
  Hogan also said he hopes to have a testing site at FedEx Field in Landover up and running within days. The National Guard began setting up the screening and testing location in the Washington Redskins’ stadium parking lot last week.
  Virginia has turned to tobacco and other companies for medical supplies, Northam said Tuesday, acknowledging that medical personnel around the state have appealed for help. He said prison inmates are also working to make “sneeze-guard” masks and completed 25,000 on Monday.
  Northam said his team is using business leads to seek out other sources, including ordering some supplies from overseas.
  “We’re talking to dentists, people in the tech industry, the coal industry and tobacco companies,” he said. “And we have some very promising leads from Virginia manufacturers about turning their production lines into producing [personal protective equipment].  Obviously we have to verify that it’s medical-grade.”
  Northam, standing between two signs reading, “Do your part, stay at home,” acknowledged that his ban on many nonessential businesses would be painful to the economy and to individuals. “But every decision we make is based on science and data, and as your governor, I take full responsibility,” he said.
  The ban was set to take effect Tuesday just before midnight and last for 30 days. He encouraged businesses with questions to email  business@virginia.gov . 
  Northam, who on Monday became only the second governor to cancel the   remainder of the school year , issued guidance Tuesday for how that would play out, giving principals flexibility in completing curriculums and assuring seniors that they would graduate on time. Bowser and Hogan said they were not ready to announce decisions on public schools.
  Virginia’s largest local government, that of Fairfax County, announced that all county buildings would be closed to the public as of 5 p.m. Friday. Some buildings will remain open in a limited capacity, officials said, but most county business will be conducted online, by phone or by mail.
  Metro, which has seen a dramatic drop in ridership because of the shutdown, said it was  closing 19 stations starting Thursday  to limit the spread of the virus, protect employees and conserve cleaning supplies.
  As of Tuesday night, officials had reported 828 coronavirus cases in the region, with  350 positive cases in Maryland, 291 in Virginia and 187 in the District.
  D.C. officials reported 46 new cases Tuesday night, the highest one-day total for the city since the pandemic began. Bowser said the surge should not come as a surprise, given the rising number of people being tested.
  Maryland health officials said a Prince George’s County resident had died of covid-19, the fourth virus-related fatality so far in the state. The man was in his 60s and had underlying health problems.
  A Virginia Beach resident and two residents of the Canterbury Rehabilitation and Healthcare Center in Henrico County also have died of coronavirus, Virginia health officials said Tuesday in a news release.
  The Canterbury residents were among several patients from the facility hospitalized because of the virus, the Department of Health said.
  Nine people have died from the novel coronavirus in Virginia, all of them above age 60.
  Virginia Beach health officials said the man who died in that part of the state was in his 70s and had underlying health problems. They warned that the death could be part of a community spread of the virus in the city of 443,000 residents. So far, Virginia Beach has 18 reported cases of infection, officials said.
  “Elderly individuals and those with underlying health conditions are at greater risk of complications from COVID-19, including death,” Demetria Lindsay, the Virginia Beach health department director, said in the news release. “These at-risk individuals are strongly advised to take steps to minimize contact with others who are ill, practice social distancing, and stay at home as much as possible.”
 