
  House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer said today that House members have been asked to be in Washington, DC no later than 10 a.m. ET Thursday to vote on the next coronavirus relief package and a rules change to allow for proxy voting.
  He said on a call with reporters that congressional leaders “are asking every member to return who can return, and we hope that that is a large number.” 
  Some lawmakers, he said, are particularly vulnerable to the illness and others are caring for family members. Some are concerned about traveling to DC and then having to quarantine themselves away from their family for 14 days. 
  He added that the relief package will likely get a full roll call vote, unlike the $2.2 trillion CARES Act, which passed under an expedited process often used for uncontroversial legislation. 
  “We think it will pass with a bipartisan vote,” Hoyer said. He said it is “unfortunate” that more funding for state and local governments did not make it into the agreement, which is still being finalized. He said he believes congressional leaders are “close to a deal.”
  He said the legislation will include $25 billion for testing, divided between states, local governments and the federal government. 
  
  
  New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo acknowledged that the wave of unemployment claims has overwhelmed the state’s system.
  Cuomo said the agency has hired 1,000 workers just to field unemployment calls. 
  Cuomo said people are working seven days a week on the unemployment office problems, but they are trying to update a system that is used to a much lower capacity. 
  "The good news is this: You're going to get the same benefit, anyway. It's not like it's costing you money, right? I know it's frustrating, but once you qualify, the qualification is retroactive, so you're going to get the same benefit. … You will get the benefit, it's just an annoying delay," he said.
  
  
  New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo will meet with President Trump at the White House today. The two have sometimes  disagreed  on their approaches to the coronavirus pandemic, and other times they've  praised  each other.
  Cuomo said his approach today is simple: He'll tell the truth.
  During his daily briefing, a reporter asked Cuomo about his upcoming trip:
  "When you head down to the White House today — I think it's been fair to say that you've had to walk a fine line in your dealings with him," the reporter asked. "How's this going to continue when you meet with him today."
  Cuomo responded: 
  Cuomo said the President has "no problem" telling him when he agrees and disagrees with the governor and vice versa. 
  "Heck with it, just tell the truth," Cuomo said.
  What they'll discuss:  Cuomo said the focus of his meeting with Trump will be on testing. He said said he believes the federal government needs to tackle manufacturing supply chain issues.
  “It’s a situation where you need everyone to work together," the governor said
  
  Watch: 
  
  New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said he agrees with the federal government that individual states should be in charge of administering testing, but the US government needs to take the helm with supply issues. 
  "It's only appropriate that the state should be in charge of actual testing in the state. I agree with the federal government's position on that," Cuomo said. 
  Cuomo said that the state-regulated labs tell him that manufacturers are responsible for the testing holdup, and in turn, the manufacturers say the international supply chain is the problem. 
  Cuomo said his daughters asked him why he didn’t think of buying test kits from South Korea,  as Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan did .
  "That piece is where the federal government can help us. Take that national manufacturer and that supply chain for the national manufacturers and let the federal government figure out South Korea and China and international supply issues, rather than have 50 states now figure out how to go be like Governor Hogan and figure out how to buy tests in South Korea," Cuomo said.
  
  Watch: 
  
  
  
  New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said that when the state's economies are ready to reopen, the process will be coordinated regionally.
  Across the nation, some clusters of states have banded together to  develop plans to reopen. 
  "The same logic that applies to the country applies to some states, this state," Cuomo said.
  "There are regional economies within this state" that need to work together, he said.
  
  
  New York City will throw a ticker tape parade to honor health care workers and first responders once the city reopens, Mayor Bill de Blasio said.
  The Canyon of Heroes is the name given to the parade route that follows Broadway between the Battery and City Hall in New York City.
  "The first thing we will, before we think about anything else, is we will take the time only as New York City can do to throw the biggest, best parade to honor these heroes. Many, many great heroes have gone down that canyon to be appreciated and loved by millions of New Yorkers, but I think this will be the greatest of all the parades because this one will speak to the rebirth of New York City," de Blasio said.
  
  
  New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said some elective medical treatments will be allowed to resume in some parts of the state.
  These procedures will only be allowed to resume in areas "without a Covid issue," Cuomo said, adding that New York City, Westchester County and other hard-hit areas will continue to cancel elective procedures.
  Last month, Cuomo said canceling all non-elective surgeries across the state  would free up 25-35% of hospital beds. 
  
  
  New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said 481 people died from coronavirus on Monday in the state. 
  The number of deaths in hospitals was 452, while 29 passed away in nursing rooms.
  The number remained flat from Sunday, which saw 478 deaths.
  
  
  New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said total hospitalizations of coronavirus patients in the state are "basically flat."
  However, about 1,300 new people were hospitalized yesterday, Cuomo said. 
  Watch: 
  
 