Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox.  Sign up here . 
  The novel  coronavirus  has upended traditional ways of life and brought the  global economy  to a near-standstill. 
  The  U.S.-Mexico border , through which some $1.4 billion worth of goods crosses daily, has only been partially affected, given its importance in both country’s economies. 
  Immigration , however, is another matter. Last month, the Trump administration halted nonessential travel and moved to turn back any immigrants trying to seek asylum in the U.S. The federal government has stopped receiving applications and suspended immigration hearings for the duration of the crisis. 
  “The United States and Mexico have agreed to restrict nonessential travel across our shared border,”  Secretary of State Mike Pompeo  said during a  White House  press briefing with other top officials. 
  On Tuesday, the Trump administration  sent more than 500 troops  to the southern border, as well.
  The restrictions, however, have left enough leeway for commercial goods to still be transported into the U.S. Mexicans with work permits have also been exempted. 
  Traffic has slowed sharply enough to affect either side of the border’s economy. In Tijuana, the sales manager of a small industrial firm told  The Economist  that his business will “have to close.” 
  Mexico has been criticized for  lagging behind other nations  in its response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Only on Monday did the government extend a ban on nonessential government work to other business sectors.
  MEXICAN PRESIDENT CLAIMS RIVALS WOULD TAKE OVER IF HE SELF-ISOLATED, AS EXPERTS DECRY CORONAVIRUS RESPONSE  
  Mexican President  Andrés Manuel López Obrador  has likewise been criticized for his nonchalant attitude toward the pandemic. In recent weeks he has continued to travel the country, hug his supporters and encouraged families to visit restaurants because it “strengthens the economy.” 
  CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP  
  As of Thursday, the country has reported 1,378 cases of coronavirus and 37 deaths, according to the latest data from  Johns Hopkins University . 
  Fox News’ Adam Shaw and The Associated Press contributed to this report . 
 