Global coronavirus infections surpassed 1 million, a milestone reached just four months after the first cases surfaced in China. More than 52,000 people have died around the world.
  New York, the U.S. epicenter, reported 9,000 new infections. Italy cases slowed. In Hong Kong, bars and pubs were ordered closed for 14 days after being linked to spread of the virus.
  U.S. President Donald Trump again tested negative for the virus. The number of Americans seeking unemployment benefits more than doubled to a record 6.65 million. Companies including British Airways and Walt Disney Co. furloughed workers.
  Key Developments:
  • Global cases top 1 million; deaths exceed 52,000: Johns Hopkins
  • Testing in China finds more symptomless cases
  • Trump to use production act for ventilators
  • U.S. states scramble for masks, body bags
  • White House likely to urge face coverings in public
  Singapore Tightens Enforcement on Safe Distancing (7:44 a.m. HK)
  Singapore has issued 129 stop-work orders to companies after inspecting more than 850 workplaces as it tightened enforcement on safe distancing, Straits Times reported, citing an update from the Ministry of Manpower. The inspections focused on compliance in implementing work-from-home arrangements.
  Michigan, Connecticut, Indiana Seen as Next Hot Spots (7:33 a.m. HK)
  The rate of positive coronavirus tests suggests that the next hot spots could include Michigan, Connecticut, Indiana, Georgia and Illinois, said White House virus task-force coordinator Deborah Birx.
  “We do have two states that have 35% positives, and that’s New York and New Jersey,” making them a clear hot zone, Birx told reporters at a White House briefing. Louisiana’s positive test rate is 26%.
  “Michigan, Connecticut, Indiana, Georgia, Illinois -- that should tell you where the next hot spots are coming -- are at 15% test positive,” she added. “And then Colorado, D.C., Rhode Island and Massachusetts are at 13%.”
  Pence Says Hospitals to Be Paid for Uninsured Patients (7:07 a.m. HK)
  Some of the $100 billion in federal funds earmarked to help hospitals cope with the coronavirus pandemic will cover bills for the uninsured, Vice President Mike Pence said.
  “We don’t want any Americans to worry about the cost of getting a test, the cost of getting treatment,” Pence told reporters.
  The Trump administration is working on a proposal for the president to direct some of the funds targeted to hospitals to cover expenses for the uninsured. The funds would go directly to the medical facilities, Pence said. Officials expect to have an announcement on Friday.
  U.S. Doubles Small-Business Loan Rate (6:46 a.m. HK)
  The Small Business Administration has bumped up to 1% the interest rate lenders may charge under a $350 billion U.S. relief program for small businesses affected by the virus. The move came after lenders complained that the previous approved rate of 0.5% was below even their own cost of funds.
  White House Likely to Urge Face Coverings (6:37 a.m. HK)
  The White House is likely to recommend that people living in areas hardest hit by the coronavirus cover their faces in public, according to a person familiar with the matter, as new research shows that the pathogen may hang in the air after people sneeze, cough or even talk. The administration won’t urge Americans to buy commercial medical-grade masks, which are in short supply at hospitals.
  Officials in New York City and the San Francisco Bay Area told residents Thursday that they should cover their faces when they are outside, while Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti made a similar recommendation Wednesday.
  Trump Again Tests Negative (5:38 p.m. NY)
  President Donald Trump tested negative again for the coronavirus and has no symptoms, according to a memo from a White House doctor. The test was administered early Thursday, according to the statement handed out to reporters at the White House.
  “He is healthy and without symptoms,” Sean Conley, physician to the president and a U.S. Navy commander, said in the memo. Trump was tested earlier in the outbreak and was negative then as well.
  China Finds More Symptomless Cases (5:05 p.m. NY)
  Almost four out of five people who were positive for coronavirus in a day’s testing in China this week showed no obvious signs of Covid-19, the BMJ medical journal said. Of 166 new infections detected, 130, or 78%, didn’t have symptoms, the journal reported Thursday, citing China’s National Health Commission. Most of the 36 people who did have symptoms were linked to international travel.
  Trump Issues Order to Speed Supplies (4:40 p.m. NY)
  President Donald Trump issued an order under the Defense Production Act to speed production of ventilators after state officials raised alarm that supplies are inadequate.
  Trump directed the Department of Health and Human Services to ensure that General Electric Co., Hill-Rom Holdings Inc., Medtronic Plc, ResMed Inc., Royal Philips NV and Vyaire Medical Inc. obtain needed supplies. The order doesn’t name the suppliers to companies manufacturing ventilators.
  Trump has expressed reluctance to use the law, comparing it to nationalizing industries. He has said he prefers to use threats to invoke the act as leverage to force companies to comply.
  Tennessee, a Holdout, Makes Stay-Home Order (4:25 p.m. NY)
  Tennessee is requiring citizens to remain at home, ending one of the last holdouts by U.S. states. Governor Bill Lee, who had previously only urged residents to stay home, said he made the decision after seeing traffic data showing people were traveling more.
  In Ohio, Governor Mike DeWine extended his state’s stay-at-home order through May 1. The order was set to expire April 6 but is still needed with models showing the peak of the outbreak expected by mid-May, the governor said. Stores will be asked to set, post, and enforce limits on number of customers inside at at any one time.
  Germany’s Deaths Top 1,000 (3:15 p.m. NY)
  Deaths in Germany climbed to 1,074 Thursday, a day after the government extended a nationwide lockdown beyond Easter. The toll was 931 the previous day, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. Confirmed cases increased to 84,264 -- the third-highest in Europe -- from 77,981.
  The head of Germany’s public health authority said this week he expects the nation’s relatively low death rate of 0.8% to rise in the next few weeks.
  U.S. Layoffs Lead to Lost Insurance (1:10 p.m. NY)
  Some 3.5 million American workers probably lost their employer-provided health insurance policies in the past two weeks as the epidemic triggered an unprecedented wave of layoffs, according to research published Thursday by the Economic Policy Institute.
  The “very rough estimate” is based on industry-specific unemployment claims filed in Washington state, which had the earliest U.S. outbreak.
  It’s hard to be precise because some laid-off workers will be able to get insurance via Obamacare exchanges or a family member who still has a job, or will qualify for government coverage under Medicaid, the EPI said. On the other hand, the 3.5 million doesn’t include spouses or children of the newly unemployed who may now be without coverage.
  N.Y. New Cases Rise by Almost 9,000 (1 p.m. NY)
  New York’s coronavirus outbreak shows no signs of abating, with almost 8,700 new infections, 1,200 new hospitalizations, 400 new ICU admissions and more than 400 new deaths, Governor Andrew Cuomo said.
  Cuomo said at the current infection rate, the state is six days away from exhausting its stockpile of breathing machines. About 350 new patients per night need ventilation, and the state has about 2,200 stockpiled.
  Unlike other states that claim to have received faulty ventilators from the U.S. stockpile, Cuomo says all those received by New York appear to be in working order.
  Pence Says 100,000 Get Tested (12:34 p.m. NY)
  Vice President Mike Pence said more than 100,000 Americans are now being tested daily for coronavirus, as the government tries to ramp up its lagging response to tracking the outbreak.
  A weekend breakthrough on point-of-care testing by Abbott Laboratories will make an additional 50,000 tests available each day, Pence said Thursday in an interview with Bloomberg Television.
  There have been about 1.2 million coronavirus tests performed in the U.S. as of noon Thursday, according to the Covid 19 Tracking Project, which examines data supplied by states.
  Italy Infections Slow (12:20 p.m. NY)
  Italy reported 4,668 new cases of the coronavirus on Thursday compared with 4,782 a day earlier, as growth in infections slowed.
  The nation had 760 deaths as the number of fatalities rose again after three weeks of nationwide lockdown.
  The toll over the past 24 hours compared with 727 on Wednesday, according to figures from the civil protection agency.
  Democrats Postpone Convention (12:05 p.m. NY)
  The Democratic National Committee on Thursday postponed the presidential nominating convention from July to Aug. 17 due to concerns about the coronavirus, according to two people familiar with the decision. The delay comes after likely presidential nominee Joe Biden said it should be pushed back for safety reasons.
  Pelosi Forming Panel to Oversee Stimulus (11:35 a.m. NY)
  U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi will create a select committee with subpoena power to oversee the government’s response to the outbreak, including how the $2.2 trillion from last week’s stimulus plan is spent.
  Pelosi on Thursday compared the committee to the panel chaired by then-Senator Harry Truman in the 1940s to investigate defense spending as the country mobilized for World War II.
  “We want to make sure there are not exploiters out there,” she told reporters. “Where there is money, there is mischief.”
  Putin Extends Lockdown Through April 30 (10:36 a.m. NY)
  President Vladimir Putin extended his order keeping Russians at home until April 30, warning that the spread of coronavirus has yet to reach its peak.
  The Russian leader said certain parts of Russia, including Moscow, haven’t managed to get the situation under control. He said he would give additional authority to regional leaders to determine the level of response locally. He noted that the stay-at-home period could be shortened if the situation improves.
  Amazon Hires 80,000, Steps Up Warehouse Safety (9:24 a.m. NY)
  Amazon.com Inc. said it has hired 80,000 people to help meet demand for online orders and has stepped up safety precautions at its U.S warehouses.
  Dave Clark, Amazon’s logistics chief, said in a blog on Thursday that Amazon would probably go “well beyond” its previous estimate of an additional $350 million in costs to support a growing workforce.
  HK Orders Bars, Pubs to Close (7:28 a.m. NY)
  Hong Kong has ordered bars and pubs to close for 14 days from April 3. The city earlier reported 37 new cases, taking its total to 802.
  For more articles like this, please visit us at  bloomberg.com 
  ©2020 Bloomberg L.P.
 