JERUSALEM – Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and political rival Benny Gantz announced Monday that they forged a deal to form an “emergency” government, ending months of political paralysis.
  The deal averts what would have been a fourth consecutive election in more than a year as the country fights its coronavirus outbreak.
  Terms of the agreement weren’t immediately announced. Israeli media said it called for a three-year period in which Netanyahu would serve as prime minister for the first half and Gantz would take the job for the second half.
  After the vote March 2 ended in a stalemate, Netanyahu and former military chief Gantz agreed late last month to try to form a unity government because of the burgeoning coronavirus crisis. The talks dragged on and stalled several times, sparking concern that the collapse of a deal would force the country into new elections.
  Although Netanyahu repeatedly came up short in the last elections, the coalition agreement returns the long-serving leader to the premiership, defying critics who predicted his downfall.
  The deal probably required major compromise by both men. During three bitter campaigns over the past year, Gantz and his Blue and White party vowed never to serve in a government under Netanyahu so long as he faces a slew of corruption charges. 
  Negotiations between the two leaders largely revolved around Netanyahu's corruption trial set to start next month. Main sticking points included a demand by the prime minister to have more say on judicial appointments, which could play a role if his case reaches the country's Supreme Court.
  Last month’s election, just like the campaigns last September and April, ended with no clear winner. Endorsed by a slight majority of lawmakers, Gantz was given the first shot at building a coalition government.
  The glue holding together Gantz's different backers was their shared animosity toward Netanyahu. The opposition leader had begun to move forward with legislation that would have disqualified the indicted Netanyahu from serving as prime minister.
  As the virus crisis worsened and his shaky alliance frayed, Gantz made an about-face late last month and accepted an offer from Netanyahu to pursue a joint government to deal with the pandemic. The move drew heavy criticism from Gantz’s supporters and tore apart his Blue and White alliance, leaving him with a faction roughly half its original size.
  Negotiations continued even after Gantz’s allotted time to build a coalition ended last week. The president gave the Knesset until May 7 to select a candidate for prime minister. If a majority of legislators fails to choose a candidate, the Knesset would automatically be dissolved, triggering new elections.
  Sunday night, several thousand demonstrators, including Gantz’s former political partner Yair Lapid, gathered in Tel Aviv to protest the expected government deal. Protesters accused Netanyahu of using the coronavirus crisis to shield himself from prosecution and accused Gantz of abandoning his central campaign promises.
  “You don’t fight corruption from within. If you’re inside, you’re part of it,” Lapid said.
  Netanyahu awaits trial on charges of accepting bribes, breach of trust and fraud. He  denied any wrongdoing and portrays himself as a victim of a media and judicial witch hunt. Citing the coronavirus crisis, Netanyahu’s handpicked justice minister delayed the trial by two months by shuttering most of the court system.
  Israel has identified more than 13,650 cases of the coronavirus, including at least 177 deaths. This week, the country began relaxing some of its health restrictions. Hundreds of thousands are out of work, and the economy has come to a standstill.
  Coronavirus live updates: Lockdown protests heat up; New York City cancels Pride Parade and all major June events 
  'Keep your voice down': Trump has another confrontation with a reporter at coronavirus briefing 
 