
  
  US airline JetBlue will require all passengers to wear a face covering during travel starting on May 4, according to a statement from the airline. 
  It is the first major US airline to take such a step, according to a major flight attendants' union.
  The policy comes after the airline began requiring all crew members to wear face coverings while working.
  On Monday, American Airlines said its flight attendants would be  required to wear  face masks during every mainline and regional flight starting May 1.
  Turkey will send medical equipment to the United States on Tuesday including N95 masks, face shields, surgical masks, gowns and disinfectant, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan announced in a speech on Monday.
  The cargo bound for the US contains 500,000 surgical masks, 40,000 gowns, 2,000 liters of disinfectant, 1,500 goggles, 400 N95 masks and 500 face shields, according to the Turkish presidency.
  Turkey has sent medical equipment to 55 countries since the start of the pandemic, according to the presidency.
  It is unclear where precisely the supplies -- which are expected to arrive Tuesday evening at Joint Base Andrews -- will go. CNN has reached out to the White House and FEMA for further information.
  
  
  El Salvador President Nayib Bukele has authorized the use of lethal force by the police and army against gang members he says are taking advantage of the coronavirus pandemic, after a weekend of violence left at least 50 people dead across the country.
  24-hour lockdown:  The President has also taken strong measures against gang members already in prison, ordering a 24-hour lockdown in seven of the country’s high-security prisons, putting metal sheets over jail cells and housing prisoners from different gangs together. 
  Cells searched:  Bukele shared images on his personal Twitter account of the jail cells being sealed off. He also retweeted images of several shirtless inmates lined up almost on top of each other in a courtyard at the Izalco prison as their cells were searched, some 40 miles outside of San Salvador. The images were originally posted by deputy justice minister and director of prisons Osiris Luna Meza.
  Lethal force:  In addition to the measures taken inside the penitentiaries, Bukele authorized the use of lethal force by the national police and the army “against the terrorists who are carrying out imminent threats against the physical integrity of the population.” 
  Coronavirus lockdown:  The President has imposed some of the strictest lockdown measures during the coronavirus pandemic, including the threat of detention and quarantine if health directives are violated and confiscating vehicles.
  Bukele, who took office last June, campaigned on the promise of taking a tough stance on gang violence, which has plagued El Salvador for decades. 
  US President Donald Trump said he “never even thought” of changing the date of the upcoming presidential election on November 3, despite former Vice President Joe Biden suggesting Trump would attempt a delay.
  Trump added that Biden never said he would try to delay the election -- despite Biden saying those words exactly during a virtual fundraiser last week, according to a pool report.
  Trump  cannot unilaterally change the date of the election  in November, as it has been set  into law by federal statute and Congress would have to approve such a move.  
  However, that has not stopped some Democrats from worrying that he will try to do so, and voters asked the previously large field of Democratic presidential candidates if they had concerns that Trump would try to delay the election or refuse to leave office if he were defeated in November.
  
  Watch: 
  
  At least 987,022 cases of coronavirus have been recorded in the United States, including 56,144 deaths, according to Johns Hopkins University's  tally of cases .
  On Monday, Johns Hopkins reported at least 19,658 new cases and 1,071 deaths. 
  The totals include cases from all 50 states, the District of Columbia and other US territories, as well as repatriated cases.
  CNN has an interactive map tracking coronavirus cases across the country: 
  
  Global coronavirus cases have now topped 3 million, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University.
  Nearly a third of all infections have been recorded in the United States, the university reported.
  The US has a count of at least 987,022 confirmed cases, according to the JHU Coronavirus Resource Center website.  
  Spain follows the US as the nation with the second highest count of Covid-19 cases, with a total of 229,422, according to Johns Hopkins.  
  This map tracks the global spread of the virus: 
  
  
  US President Donald Trump says he takes no responsibility for a spike in people using disinfectants improperly after he suggested ingesting disinfectant as a cure for coronavirus last week.
  He answered, "No, I don't" when asked if he takes any responsibility for the numbers.
  Some context:  Trump asked his medical team to look into the possibility of using disinfectants as a way to cure the virus inside the body during a  coronavirus briefing last Thursday .
  He has since claimed that the comments were "sarcastic."
  As CNN has previously reported, Gov. Larry Hogan said Sunday his state experienced hundreds of calls from people across Maryland asking whether injecting or ingesting disinfectants was an effective way to combat coronavirus.
  
  Watch: 
  
  The coronavirus pandemic isn't over, World Health Organization director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said.
  He said the WHO "continues to be concerned about the increasing trends in Africa, Eastern Europe, Latin America and some Asian countries."
  "As in all regions, cases and deaths are underreported in many countries in these regions, because of low testing capacity," Tedros said. 
  "This virus will not be defeated if we are not united, if we are not united, the virus will exploit the cracks between us and continue to create havoc. Lives will be lost," Tedros added. 
 