Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox.  Sign up here .  
  Jimmy Kimmel  responded Wednesday night to what he described as a “scolding” from  White House  press secretary Kayleigh McEnany over a joke he made earlier in the week about  President Trump  taking hydroxychloroquine to prevent the  coronavirus .
  “Apparently that message resonated," Kimmel said on ABC's "Jimmy Kimmel Live," "because I got a scolding from White House press secretary number four, Kayleigh Mc-a-looney. She’s definitely still getting her hair colored, right? Anyway, thank you for watching, Kayleigh. It’s always nice to welcome a new fan.”
  Kimmel had joked that Trump was “trying to kill himself” by using the drug, which the Food and Drug Administration warns can cause life-threatening heart problems.
  JIMMY KIMMEL ISSUES BACKHANDED APOLOGY AFTER MISLEADING CLIP OF MIKE PENCE CARRYING 'EMPTY' PPE BOXES 
  McEnany responded Wednesday at a White House news briefing, naming Kimmel among several other media figures whom she cited for their "apoplectic" hydroxychloroquine coverage. Also targeted were MSNBC's Joe Scarborough and CNN's Chris Cuomo.
  Trump has been extolling the potential benefits of hydroxychloroquine since the beginning of the crisis, but medical experts and health officials have debated how effective the anti-malaria drug is for either preventing or treating the coronavirus.
  McEnany stressed the drug is not meant to be used without a prescription and confirmed Trump had been prescribed it by his doctor.
  Kimmel recently apologized after he showed a misleading clip of Vice President Mike Pence carrying an empty box of personal protective equipment (PPE) to a hospital.
  "it would appear that @vp was joking about carrying empty boxes for a staged publicity stunt," Kimmel tweeted after he was criticized for saying Pence asked his team if he could wheel the boxes in "just for the camera."
  CLICK HERE FOR COMPLETE CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE 
  "The full video reveals that he was carrying full boxes for a staged publicity stunt. My apologies. I know how dearly this administration values truth," he added sarcastically.
 