There are so many questions to place before White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany these days: questions about  coronavirus  policy, about the off-again, on-again status of the White House coronavirus task force, about the economy, about the president’s lies and falsehoods — the last one’s an evergreen.
  In Wednesday’s White House briefing, Reuters correspondent Jeff Mason blended the issues of the day with a pointed question about McEnany’s professional background. Before assuming her current job, McEnany was the Trump campaign’s national press secretary, continuing her experience as a talking head on cable-news shows. In that capacity,  McEnany said on Fox Business on Feb. 25 , “We will not see diseases like the coronavirus come here. We will not see terrorism come here.”
  That was a stretch, considering that, at the time,  Italy had already seen a surge in cases and there was also mayhem on cruise ships . What was she thinking? That’s essentially what Mason wanted to know,  asking , “Given what has happened since then — obviously — would you like to take that back?”
  Short answer: No.
  “Well,” responded McEnany, “first let me note: I was asked a question on Fox Business about the president’s travel restrictions. I noted what was the intent behind those travel restrictions, which is: We will not see the coronavirus come here, we will not see terrorism come here, referring to an earlier set of travel restrictions.”
  Hmmm, so McEnany was merely stating what the Trump administration was  intending  to do — not what it was actually doing? If so, then perhaps media outlets have been misquoting those comments for weeks and weeks? The transcript of the Feb. 25 edition of the now-defunct Fox Business show “Trish Regan Primetime” answers that question. The segment started with Trump’s calls for Supreme Court justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Sonia Sotomayor to recuse themselves from cases involving the administration’s policies — including the travel ban the White House sought to impose in the early days of the Trump administration. Speaking of that initiative, McEnany said:
  Bolding inserted for the purposes of debunking: This was a direct statement, a bold and benighted prediction that the pandemic that has claimed nearly 75,000 U.S. lives would skip this country. It wasn’t, as McEnany told Reuters, some indirect assertion of the president’s “intent.”
  Perhaps McEnany just misremembered her exchange with Regan — but there was evidence she had been doing some research in preparation for just this question. After she finished talking about “intent,” McEnany, referring to notes in front of her, launched into a frenzy of whataboutism to deflect attention from her own rhetorical excesses:
  Those who engage in coronavirus-related political gunslinging on Twitter will recognize that list. It’s a distillation of stories that surfaced, for the most part, on the early end of the coronavirus timeline.  As Peter Kafka noted in a Recode piece : “If you read the stories from that period, not just the headlines, you’ll find that most of the information holding the pieces together comes from authoritative sources you’d want reporters to turn to: experts at institutions like the World Health Organization, the CDC, and academics with real domain knowledge.” Over at  The Fix , Aaron Blake notes that McEnany simplified the content of the pieces she cited, and that she made her comments three weeks later than all but one of those pieces, when the danger of the virus was more clear. Details, details!
  But what matters to Trump and his followers is that McEnany was prepared with a defense that  sounded  bulletproof, even though the facts underlying it crumble upon inspection. For this crowd, specious is wondrous.
  Read more: 
  Erik Wemple: Kayleigh McEnany says Trump’s briefings are   ‘excellent.’  Maybe she didn’t watch them. 
  Jason Rezaian: The pandemic is a hard enough story for journalists to cover. Leaders like Trump make it harder. 
  Brian Klaas: I live in Britain. Thank goodness there’s no Fox News here. 
  Greg Sargent: A Fox News host asked Fauci a question. She got the wrong answer. 
  Paul Waldman: Trump’s retreat from responsibility will fail 
 