Sixth  in an occasional series on White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany , to prove the impossibility of speaking for President Trump. 
  On Tuesday, White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany took a stand for Deborah Birx, response coordinator for the White House coronavirus task force, and against the New York Times, which had recently published an  in-depth story about the Trump administration’s missteps in combating the coronavirus .
  With that, McEnany exited the briefing room, having completed another of her  patented closing blasts at the media to punctuate her time at the lectern .
  Bolting was her only choice. For if McEnany stayed put at the front of the room, she would have to defend so much hogwash. Who would want to do such a thing?
  In alleging that the New York Times leveled an “attack” on Birx “based on no facts,” McEnany appeared to be relying on the possibility that her intended audience would never read the actual report. Turning to actual facts, the story included a number of claims about Birx, including:
  That’s a lot of reporting. According to the story, Birx declined to be interviewed. Instead, White House spokesman Judd Deere told the Times that President Trump acted decisively on China — a claim that has played on repeat at the White House for months — among other policy steps. “President Trump and his bold actions from the very beginning of this pandemic stand in stark contrast to the do-nothing Democrats and radical left who just complain, criticize and condemn anything this president does to preserve this nation,” he said. That’s a catchall response, one that does nothing whatsoever to rebut the specific claims in the piece.
  And here’s what Times reporter Maggie Haberman — one of five bylines on the piece — tweeted after McEnany’s criticism from the briefing room on Tuesday:
  Yet McEnany claimed that the reporting relied on “no facts.” When Trump officials make such claims in a public forum, there’s an easy way to determine whether they have a genuine gripe (rare) or are just engaging in a round of damage control (just about always): Ask whether they’ve made a demand for a correction or retraction of the material in question.
  “There has been no request for a correction or a retraction,” says Times Washington Bureau Chief Elisabeth Bumiller in an interview with this blog. “This was based on dozens of interviews and documents. The idea that we should be ashamed of this — we went out of our way to say that Deborah Birx was highly respected in her field, that she was working to exhaustion. This wasn’t any kind of attack on Deborah Birx.”
  The Erik Wemple Blog asked McEnany whether she regretted not cooperating to a greater extent on the piece. We will update with any response.
  Perhaps McEnany is relying on short memories when she spews anti-media nonsense from her lectern. Consider that in April, the Times published a similar look-back piece,  this time with six reporters in the byline field . It examined disputes, incompetence and foot-dragging in the very early days of the Trump coronavirus response. In that version, however, Birx came off as a forceful voice of reason key to persuading Trump to  push through federal social-distancing guidelines .
  Other parts of the transaction, however, mirror this week’s drama: The April story contains a similar catchall quote from Deere: “While the media and Democrats refused to seriously acknowledge this virus in January and February, President Trump took bold action to protect Americans and unleash the full power of the federal government to curb the spread of the virus, expand testing capacities and expedite vaccine development even when we had no true idea the level of transmission or asymptomatic spread.”
  And after the story was published, Trump used the briefing-room lectern to attack the newspaper: “And so the story in the New York Times was a total fake. It’s a fake newspaper, and they write fake stories,”  said Trump in his April 13 coronavirus task-force briefing . At the same briefing, Trump also showcased a campaign-style video touting his work on the coronavirus,  one that included a deceptively truncated quote from Haberman on a Times podcast .
  So there are some echoes: Time and again, the White House screws up its  coronavirus  countermeasures; time and again, the White House shafts a newspaper trying to document those mistakes.
  Read more from Erik Wemple :
  Kayleigh McEnany Watch: So organized! 
  Kayleigh McEnany Watch: Now let’s belittle Lt. Col. Vindman! 
  Kayleigh McEnany Watch: Neutrality on the Confederate flag 
  Kayleigh McEnany gets the last word 
  Kayleigh McEnany Watch: You’ve got to be kidding me! 
 