Tuesday primaries ran relatively smoothly in Kentucky, New York and Virginia, though voters in some places faced long lines and thousands who requested absentee ballots did not receive them on time.
  Kentucky voters, who are deciding between Amy McGrath and Charles Booker, two Democrats, in a contest to face Senator Mitch McConnell in the fall, waited in lines up to two hours at the University of Kentucky’s football stadium in Lexington.
  In Lexington and Louisville, the state’s two largest cities, there was just one polling place each for voters to cast primary day ballots. Louisville voters did not have to wait in line, and by the afternoon officials in Lexington added more equipment and the wait times were reduced.
  In Virginia, results from Virginia Beach won’t be released until Wednesday after officials switched to paper provisional ballots when electronic poll books used to check voters in at polling sites failed Tuesday morning.
  Republican voters in Virginia Beach are choosing a nominee to face Representative Elaine Luria, a Democrat who flipped the seat in 2018. Scott Taylor, whom Ms. Luria defeated two years ago, faces two other Republicans in the G.O.P. primary for Virginia’s Second District.
  Whatever happens in races from Kentucky to New York on Tuesday may not be immediately known. Because of the high number of voters casting absentee ballots, the final results will not be tabulated for days. So, in a close race, it may not be clear who won on Tuesday night or even Wednesday.
  In New York, absentee ballots are not fully counted until a week after the election. And those ballots could represent about half of all votes cast in the primary.
  In Kentucky, absentee ballot requests have soared in the state’s two largest cities, Louisville and Lexington. Yet a number of jurisdictions have indicated that on Tuesday, they will only tabulate votes cast that day, or those cast that day combined with those cast during in-person early voting.
  That would mean that potentially hundreds of thousands of absentee votes would not be counted until after Tuesday evening.
  
  Representative Eliot L. Engel, a 31-year incumbent who represents New York’s 16th District in the Bronx and Westchester County, is trying to fend off  a vigorous challenge from his left  in a Democratic primary seen as a test of the establishment’s capacity to weather its emboldened left wing.
  His top challenger is Jamaal Bowman, a middle school principal who has been endorsed by prominent progressives, including Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Senators Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts.
  Heedful of Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s upset two years ago in a neighboring district, the Democratic leadership — from House Speaker Nancy Pelosi to Senator Chuck Schumer — has lined up behind Mr. Engel. In a sign of how vulnerable Mr. Engel has become, even Hillary Clinton  stepped in to support him last week , her first endorsement in a 2020 House primary race.
  Mr. Bowman has benefited from a string of helpful events. A fellow candidate recently dropped out and endorsed him. And earlier this month, before a news conference on police violence, Mr. Engel was  caught on a microphone  asking to speak and saying, “If I didn’t have a primary, I wouldn’t care.”
  It remains to be seen whether that will be enough to overcome Mr. Engel’s name recognition and financial backing, and compensate for the fact that Mr. Bowman was unable to run a sprawling door-knocking operation because of the pandemic.
  Only  one Democratic incumbent  has lost a primary so far in 2020.
  The race in the 15th District in the South Bronx to replace Representative José E. Serrano, who is stepping down, is perhaps  one of the most peculiar Democratic primaries  in the country.
  The district is the bluest congressional district in the nation: Mrs. Clinton won it with 93.7 percent of the vote in 2016. Yet the perceived front-runner is Rubén Díaz Sr., a socially conservative Pentecostal minister with a history of making homophobic remarks who is considering voting for President Trump in November.
  That’s partly because 12 candidates have crowded the ballot, splintering the support for a more liberal candidate. Mr. Díaz also has deep roots in the district following years in the City Council and State Senate.
  The lack of unity within the party’s left flank could hurt progressives.
  City Councilman Ritchie Torres, the first openly gay elected official in the Bronx, who describes himself as a pragmatic progressive, is ahead in fund-raising. He has insisted that candidates with “no real path” should drop from the race.
  The Democratic Socialists of America and Ms. Ocasio-Cortez have backed Samelys López, an activist. For democratic socialists, the primary will be a test of their influence and how much traction their platform gains in one of the poorest and heavily minority areas in the country.
  In 2018, as a progressive fervor swept the nation in the wake of Mr. Trump’s election, Representative Carolyn B. Maloney was one of four longtime Democratic House members from New York City  to face spirited primaries from the left .
  Only one challenge succeeded: Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s bid against Joseph Crowley, a former top House Democrat.
  But Ms. Maloney’s challenger, Suraj Patel, garnered an impressive 41.2 percent of the vote. Mr. Patel, a hotel executive, is  looking to capitalize on that result  and his increased name recognition on Tuesday to try to defeat Ms. Maloney, a 14-term congresswoman who represents the 12th District.
  Lauren Ashcraft, a democratic socialist and comedian, and Peter Harrison, a housing activist, are also running in the primary. The three-way challenge could dilute the anti-establishment vote and help Ms. Maloney pull off another win.
  Some political observers  are keeping an eye on how  a sizable exodus of constituents  from the parts of Manhattan in Ms. Maloney’s district because of the coronavirus could affect turnout.
  The decrease in population could translate into a drop in base support for the incumbent, though all eligible voters are able to vote absentee. More than 700,000 voters in New York City alone have requested absentee ballots, an astronomical number compared to past elections.
  The Democratic primary in the 17th District in the lower Hudson Valley, just north of New York City, is likely to decide who replaces Representative Nita Lowey, who is stepping down after more than 30 years in office.
  It has quickly transformed into an expensive one: More than $7 million has been spent on the race. And it has raised questions about whether  one wealthy candidate can spend his way into Congress : Adam Schleifer, a former federal prosecutor and the son of a pharmaceutical billionaire, has spent more than $4 million, most from his own pocket.
  There are six other candidates in the race, including Evelyn Farkas, a former member of the Obama administration, and David Carlucci, a state senator.
  But Mondaire Jones, a former lawyer who attended Harvard Law School after growing up poor in Rockland County, has received the backing of the party’s liberal wing, winning support from the Working Families Party, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, Ms. Warren and Mr. Sanders.
  A victory for Mr. Jones would be historic in nature: He could become the first black openly gay member of Congress. Mr. Torres could also become the first if he emerges victorious in the 15th District.
  Whoever wins the Democratic Senate primary in Kentucky — a race between Mr. Booker, a state representative, and Ms. McGrath, a former Marine pilot — will face an uphill fight against  Mr. McConnell , the Senate majority leader, in a state Mr. Trump carried by nearly 30 points four years ago.
  But a race that was once seen as Ms. McGrath’s to lose has grown competitive as Mr. Booker  has harnessed the anger over police misconduct  to energize his campaign and test the grip national party leaders have over state races.
  Mr. Booker is expected to run up a large margin in Louisville, his hometown and the largest city in the state, so the question is whether Ms. McGrath can overcome that advantage in more-rural eastern and western Kentucky.
  Working in her favor is the nature of voting in the coronavirus age: State leaders aggressively pushed absentee voting, so Ms. McGrath banked a number of ballots from voters well before Mr. Booker’s late surge.
 