ENERGY
  The company behind the Keystone XL oil pipeline has finally decided to greenlight the project after years of delays.
  TC Energy will begin construction on the conduit, which is expected to enter service in 2023, the company said Tuesday in a statement.
  The project is underpinned by new 20-year agreements to transport 575,000 barrels of crude per day.
  TC Energy’s decision comes about two months after the U.S. Interior Department authorized construction across a swath of federal land in Montana, a sign that momentum was growing for a project that had been stalled by federal opposition in 2015.
  The $8 billion Keystone XL pipeline would carry crude 1,200 miles from Alberta, Canada,  to U.S. Gulf Coast refineries. Environmentalists have opposed the project, arguing that it would accelerate climate change by allowing for more oil production.
  TECHNOLOGY
  Huawei’s chairman warned Tuesday that more U.S. moves to increase pressure on the Chinese tech giant might trigger retaliation by Beijing that could damage its worldwide industry.
  Huawei Technologies, which makes smartphones and network equipment, reported that its 2019 sales rose by double digits despite curbs imposed in May on its access to U.S. components and technology. But the chairman, Eric Xu, said 2020 will be its “most difficult year” as Huawei struggles with the sanctions and the  coronavirus  pandemic.
  Huawei is at the center of tensions with Washington over China’s technology ambitions and possible spying that helped to spark President Trump’s tariff war with Beijing in 2018.
  “I think the Chinese government will not just stand by and watch Huawei be slaughtered,” Xu said at a news conference in the southern city of Shenzhen.
  Huawei, China’s first global tech brand, denies U.S. accusations the company is controlled by the ruling Communist Party or facilitates Chinese spying.
  TRANSIT
  New York’s Metropolitan Transportation Authority needs more help from the federal and state governments to ensure it can keep paying bondholders as ridership plummets because of the coronavirus, agency head Pat Foye said Tuesday.
  “We expect to make every principal and interest payment — we’re not asking for forgiveness from our creditors,” he said during an appearance on “The Brian Lehrer Show” on WNYC.
  “We’re obviously one of the largest borrowers in the muni market, and the MTA making its principal and interest payments is incredibly helpful to the overall market,” said Foye, who is recovering from covid-19.
  The MTA, which runs the nation’s largest public transportation system, has more than $45 billion of debt outstanding.
  New York’s subway ridership is down nearly 90 percent, and the number of passengers on the MTA’s Metro-North Railroad has fallen 94 percent.
  Also in Business
  Southwest Airlines  will   offer the first all-cargo flights in its 48-year history as passenger demand keeps sliding amid the spread of the new coronavirus. The flights will be offered on a charter basis, and only pilots and other needed crew members will be on board, the airline said in a blog post Tuesday.
  Apple acquired  popular mobile weather service Dark Sky to help bolster the Weather applications on its devices. The service, which has existed on the Web and on iPhone and Android platforms, stood out from the competition by offering more specific data and notifications such as when it is about to rain. Dark Sky announced the deal on its website. The companies didn’t specify the deal’s price.
  MagnaChip Semiconductor  has reached an agreement to sell its foundry business and Fab 4 manufacturing facility in a deal valued at about $435 million. The South Korean chipmaker said in a statement that it agreed to sell the businesses to a consortium led by private equity firms Alchemist Capital Partners Korea and Credian Partners  for roughly $345 million in cash and the assumption of about $90 million statutory severance liabilities. MagnaChip designs and manufactures analog and mixed-signal semiconductor chips for consumer electronics.
 