President Donald Trump's defense attorneys are  set to make their final arguments  in the Senate impeachment trial on Tuesday, concluding the maximum of three days of presentation time allowed. Monday's arguments  tackled a variety of topics , including the condemnation of the impeachment as partisan –  and unconstitutional, Trump lawyer Alan Dershowitz says . The team also deployed arguments to push against Democrats' allegations that Trump pressured Ukraine to open investigations into former Vice President Joe Biden and interference in the 2016 election. They went after the House impeachment process and honed in on Biden's son Hunter's role in Ukraine. One topic Trump's team mostly avoided:  John Bolton's new book . The ex-national security adviser reportedly says Trump personally told him that he hoped to continue to withhold military aid for Ukraine until the Biden probes were announced. Details of Bolton's book have put Republicans on the defensive.
  Prefer to listen? Check out the 5 things podcast below and  subscribe for free  on Apple Podcasts: 
  The NBA  postponed Tuesday's game  between the Los Angeles Lakers and Los Angeles Clippers – the Lakers' first game since the death of Kobe Bryant. "The decision was made out of respect for the Lakers organization, which is deeply grieving the tragic loss of Lakers legend Kobe Bryant, his daughter Gianna and seven other people in a helicopter crash on Sunday," the league said in a statement. The game will be rescheduled. TNT, which was slated to broadcast the game, and the NBA scheduled an expanded hour-long "Inside the NBA" pregame show live from Staples Center in Los Angeles beginning at 7 p.m. ET  to pay tribute to Bryant . The special will lead in to the previously scheduled Celtics vs. Heat matchup in Miami, which will move from from 7:30 to 8 p.m. ET. 
  President Donald Trump is set to unveil his long-stalled plan for peace between Israelis and Palestinians on Tuesday amid dual White House visits by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his chief political rival, Benjamin Gantz. The announcement has the potential to be a factor in Israel's election March 2, which pits Netanyahu's conservative Likud party against Gantz's more centrist Blue and White party. Trump's son-in-law and adviser Jared Kushner was tasked with drafting the peace plan back in 2017. Since then, the White House has alienated the Palestinians by  moving the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem  and other provocative actions, making it unlikely that the plan will lead to a peace breakthrough.
  The Center for Disease Control has urged U.S. travelers to immediately  avoid all future nonessential travel to China due to the coronavirus outbreak . The CDC issued a level 3 travel warning – its highest – late on Monday. Previously only the city of Wuhan was at a Level 3. "The outbreak is growing and there is limited access to adequate medical care in affected areas,'' the CDC said in a post on Twitter. China's confirmed cases have ballooned to more than 4,500 since the coronavirus was discovered last month. The epicenter of the outbreak is Wuhan, a city of 11 million people, but more than 45 cases have been confirmed in at least 15 other countries, including five in the U.S. The Chinese government has sent 6,000 extra medical workers to Wuhan from across China, including 1,800 who were due to arrive Tuesday, an official said at a news conference.
  President Donald Trump will host a rally Tuesday in Wildwood, New Jersey,  the same day his defense team will be closing its opening arguments in the Senate impeachment trial over his dealings with Ukraine. Trump will be campaigning in New Jersey  for Jeff Van Drew,  a freshman congressman who recently switched his party affiliation from Democrat to Republican. The two also  recently met at the White House . For Van Drew, the high-profile show of support from Trump is helping him build support within his new party, where activists who once fought his campaign in past elections will now be championing his candidacy. Also on Trump's agenda in the coming weeks is a campaign rally in Des Moines ahead of the Iowa caucuses as well as a rally in Manchester a day before the primaries in New Hampshire. 
  Contributing: The Associated Press 
 