The mayor of Los Angeles urged 4 million residents to wear masks to combat the  coronavirus pandemic  when they walk out in public, even as state health officials shied away from requiring a coverup. Homemade cloth masks, or even a "tucked-in bandanna," will help reduce the  spread of COVID-19  in the nation's second-largest city and remind people to practice safe social distancing, Mayor Eric Garcetti said Wednesday as he donned a black cloth mask to make his point.
  "I know this looks surreal," Garcetti said. "We're going to have to get used to seeing each other like this. ... This will be the look." 
  But he urged people not to use  medical-grade masks , such as N95 or surgical masks, which are in short supply and needed for  health care workers and first responders . 
  Garcetti also said people should only use masks when they're going out to shop for food or perform other essential tasks. Otherwise, stay home, the mayor said.
  "This isn't an excuse to suddenly all go out," Garcetti said. 
  California's 40 million people are under  state and local orders to stay home  except when performing essential tasks. Health experts say that's the best way to slow the spread of the disease, which as of early Thursday had infected nearly 10,000 Californians and caused 216 deaths, according to Johns Hopkins University, which is keeping a global tally.
  Gov. Gavin Newsom has said the number of COVID-19 cases in California is expected to peak in late May. 
  The spread of the virus statewide has, so far, been slow enough to give the state time to prepare for an expected spike in cases that could overwhelm hospitals if extreme measures aren't taken to keep most people home and away from others. 
  Los Angeles County reported more than 500 new cases on Wednesday, a 17% hike over the previous day.
  Garcetti also said the city is working to get private industry to provide much-needed personal protection equipment for medical professionals,  reports CBS Los Angeles .
  "We are mobilizing our architecture, design and manufacturing communities to utilize 3D-printing technology to produce personal protective equipment for health care professionals standing front and center in this crisis," he said.
  The mayor said designs for face shields are ready to print and the city is working to match hospitals with manufacturers to get the equipment where it's most needed.
  His non-binding mask recommendation followed a similar recommendation on Wednesday for residents of Riverside County, east of Los Angeles County. 
  County public health officer Dr. Cameron Kaiser urged that people who need to go out in public use something — even neck warmers — to cover their mouths and noses to protect others and themselves from infected droplets from coughs or sneezes. 
  However, California's public health officials released guidance Wednesday on the use of cloth masks that specifically didn't require their use.
  While the non-medical face coverings might provide some additional protection, "Californians should not have a false sense of security if they choose to wear them," Health and Human Services Secretary Dr. Mark Ghaly said. "Make sure you're also staying 6 feet away from other people if you have to leave your home to get groceries or prescriptions."
  "Face coverings are not a substitute for physical distancing or frequent hand washing, which we know are among the most effective ways to reduce the spread of COVID-19," Dr. Sonia Angell, state public health director, said in a statement.
  Earlier in the day, Angell said cloth masks could be a pitfall because if handled or worn incorrectly they might lead to infection and also might make people feel "somewhat immune" and result in their relaxing their social distancing.
  Mask recommendations have been issued in some countries but  they're by no means universal . The World Health Organization has recommended people caring for a sick relative wear a mask. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention agreed - as long as the person who was ill wasn't able to wear a mask.
 