President Donald Trump  said he's "OK" with Nevada's closure of nonessential businesses, which has shuttered  Las Vegas  casinos, days after the city's mayor called the shutdown "total insanity."
  Speaking at Sunday's daily White House briefing of the Coronavirus Task Force, Trump gave qualified support to Nevada's Democratic Gov. Steve Sisolak's closure amid the coronavirus pandemic, even though the move has shut his own Trump International Hotel Las Vegas.
  "They closed a big hotel down in Nevada that I have in Las Vegas. It’s a very severe step he took. I’m OK with it," Trump said. "But you could call that one either way."
  Nevada has 3,728 confirmed cases of the coronavirus, with 155 deaths. Las Vegas Mayor Carolyn Goodman called on Sisolak to immediately open the city for business Wednesday.
  "This shutdown has become one of total insanity, in my opinion," Goodman said, adding, "there is no backup of data as to why we are shut down from the start, no plan in place how to move through the shutdown or how even to come out of it."
  Trump was asked point-blank whether he supported the governor or the mayor's opposing viewpoint on Las Vegas' closure as a public safety measure. Trump said he was staying out of the decision.
  "I’m not involved with that. I could be if I wanted to," he said. "I know the mayor is very upset with it. Some (hotel and casino) owners are very upset with it. Some of the developers out there are upset. Others say, ‘Hey, we have to get rid of it.’ I can see both sides of that."
  Struggling to cope with the pandemic?: Try our newsletter, Staying Apart, Together 
  Discussing the closure of other hotels around the country amid the coronavirus pandemic, Trump expressed concern, including for his Trump National Doral Miami hotel and golf course in Florida.
  "I read where my wonderful place in Florida, Miami, Doral," he said. "They had to let a lot of the employees go, since it's essentially closed. You can't use it. You can't have the restaurants. You have to close it down. That's an example of many hotels closing down throughout the country. And hopefully they are going to open up relatively quickly."
  Trump expressed concern over small-business hotel closures and larger chain hotels. "Even if it's owned by a big chain, that's devastating, if they have 200 hotels in the country and they're closed," he said.
  Trump did not give guidance, saying others should be looking into solutions. "I don't know that they're working on that specific problem, but it's a problem they should be talking about," he said.
 