Our live coverage of the coronavirus outbreak has  moved here. 
  President Trump tweeted his support Friday night for  a coronavirus relief bill , which would give some Americans paid emergency leave and  offer free testing for COVID-19 .
  The legislation is part of a deal between House Democrats and the White House. Trump said the bill will be voted on in the House Friday night.
  Read Trump's tweets:  
  
  
  Attorney Karina Kufa, who reportedly traveled with Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro on his recent trip to the United States, tweeted Friday night that she tested positive for novel coronavirus.
  The Brazilian newspaper Estado de Sao Paulo, among other Brazilian media, reported that Kufa, who is Bolsonaro’s attorney and the treasurer of a political group launched by Bolsonaro, traveled with the Brazilian president on his recent trip to meet President Trump. 
  An Instagram account under Kufa’s name includes an image that appears to be the lawyer standing next to an artistic rendering of Bolsonaro in the studio of Miami artist Romero Britto. The Brazilian presidency published an article about Bolsonaro’s visit to Britto’s studio that includes the president standing next to the same rendering.
  Earlier on Friday, Bolsonaro said that  his own coronavirus test came back negative . 
  
  
  The Washington Monument will close temporarily, effective Saturday, suspending elevator tours, according to the National Park Service.
  Visitors will still be able to visit grounds, as well as other monuments along the National Mall, according to a NPS statement.
  
  
  If the World Health Organization says the Olympic Games should be canceled, they will be, the Olympics' governing body president said.
  International Olympic Committee president Thomas Bach said in an interview with CNN affiliate ARD on Thursday that the IOC will listen to the advice of the WHO, and if the WHO tells the IOC to cancel the 2020 Tokyo Games, the IOC will follow that recommendation.
  
  
  Miami Mayor Francis Suarez learned Friday that he tested positive for coronavirus and he said he's already starting to feel the symptoms.
  Suarez said he plans to share his experience in the hopes that "it calms people down because it's something I'm going through myself."
  The mayor went on to say that he's not sure where he caught the virus, but noted that he was recently in close proximity of someone who tested positive for the virus.
  In a statement that he released earlier, Suarez said, "If we did not shake hands or you did not come into contact with me if I coughed or sneezed, there is no action you need to take whatsoever. If we did, however, touch or shake hands, or if I sneezed or coughed near you since Monday, it is recommended that you self-isolate for 14 days, but you do not need to get tested."
  US Immigration and Customs Enforcement is suspending social visitation at detention facilities “as a precautionary measure,” the agency announced Friday in a statement. 
  There have not been any confirmed cases among detainees in custody, ICE said, adding that the agency is incorporating US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidance and instituting screening guidance for new arrivals. 
  
  
  Poland will not allow non-resident foreigners into the country for at least 10 days, starting Sunday midnight local time, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced Friday.
  He said the measures were being implemented to tackle the spread of the novel coronavirus. Any Poles coming from abroad will be automatically put into quarantine for 14 days. Goods will be allowed to go through. All international flights and train services will be suspended. 
  Starting Saturday midnight local time, shopping malls will be partially shut, with only pharmacies, grocery stores, laundromats and chemical stores open. All dine-in restaurants, pubs, bars, casinos and nightclubs will be shut for at least 14 days. It will be possible to order takeaway or delivery food. All gatherings of more than 50 people will be banned. 
  At least 68 cases of coronavirus have been confirmed in Poland. Two deaths from coronavirus have also been reported there.
  President Trump tweeted that he is declaring Sunday will be a National Day of Prayer as many churches around the country are closed due to the spread of coronavirus.
  Large gatherings have been discouraged as social distancing is being used in an attempt to stop the spread of the virus.
  "No matter where you may be, I encourage you to turn towards prayer in an act of faith. Together, we will easily PREVAIL!" he wrote in a subsequent tweet.
  Read Trump's tweet: 
  
 