WASHINGTON – Tuesday's primary elections have seen some changes, large and small, amid the coronavirus outbreak.
  Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine announced Monday afternoon that he is requesting a delay to in-person voting from Tuesday until June 2, making it the only state holding contests on Tuesday to try to delay its primary. After a judge denied the request,  the polls are likely still closing after all  after an 11th hour manuever.
  Three other states – Arizona, Florida, and Illinois – will for sure head to the polls Tuesday, with former Vice President Joe Biden and Sen. Bernie Sanders leading the Democratic race. Rep Tulsi Gabbard is still in the race, but she trails Biden and Sanders by hundreds of delegates. 
  Many states and cities have taken extra precautions to slow  the spread of the virus . Dozens of K-12 schools and universities have suspended classes or moved classes online. Restaurants are doing delivery or takeout only. Many Americans have begun working from home and practicing social distancing.
  Last week, officials from all four states said they were taking extra precautions to keep voting machines sanitized and will post guidance from local health officials at voting locations.
  Arizona Secretary of State Kathy Hobbs, Florida Secretary of State Laurel Lee, Illinois Elections Board Chairman Charles Scholz and Ohio Secretary of State Frank LaRose said in a joint statement last week that they are working closely "with our state health officials to ensure that our poll workers and voters can be confident that voting is safe."
  More: Biden, Sanders trade policy and historical jabs in Democratic debate filled with coronavirus questions 
  "Americans have participated in elections during challenging times in the past, and based on the best information we have from public health officials, we are confident that voters in our states can safely and securely cast their ballots in this election, and that otherwise healthy poll workers can and should carry out their patriotic duties on Tuesday," the four said in the statement at the time.
  Here is a look at how the four states with upcoming primaries are dealing with issues related to coronavirus:
  Ohio has  50 confirmed cases of the coronavirus , also known as COVID-19.
  DeWine, the governor, wants to postpone Tuesday's primaries to June. Although he does not have the power to extend the election, he said he is going to file a lawsuit in Franklin County with people at risk of severe complications for COVID-19.
  "The rights of voters will be preserved," DeWine said in a news conference Monday afternoon.
  Ohio Republican Party leader Jane Timken and Ohio Democratic Party Chairman David Pepper were consulted about the change. 
  "We fully support this recommendation, while knowing how difficult this will be on our candidates and their campaigns," Timken said in a statement. "We will work with all parties to assist in disseminating information on the new primary date and the new voting rules associated with this change." 
  Secretary of State Frank LaRose said Ohio Attorney General Dave Yost will be directed to not contest the lawsuit. LaRose added that his office will also be submitting their own recommendation to the court.
  "The power to suspend an election, to power to delay an election, is not one that we have," LaRose said. "It rests with the Legislature or the courts."
  Asked about potential disruptions to elections, President Donald Trump on Monday afternoon said, "It’s a big thing postponing an election. I think postponing an election’s a very tough thing. I think they’ll do it very safely. Not a very good thing."
  Before requesting to extend voting, LaRose issued a directive that would extend the deadline to request absentee ballots for voters who are “unforeseeably confined or hospitalized” and offer curbside voting for anyone concerned about entering their polling place, the  Columbus Dispatch reported Monday .
  Board of election officials must accept and process absentee ballot requests until 3 p.m. on Election Day for voters who have been advised by a health care professional to stay home or to isolate under the new directive. Ballots must be returned to the Board of Elections by the the time polls close Tuesday. Previously, officials could only accept requests until noon on Saturday.
  In addition, the state is going to offer curbside voting at polling locations for those concerned about going inside to vote. Voters who opt to vote in person and stand in line must be spaced at least 4 feet apart and voting machines must be spread apart “as much as possible within the polling location," under the new directive.
  Ohio officials said last week that poll workers who had been scheduled to work Tuesday's election were cancelling because of fears of the coronavirus. As a result, LaRose tried to recruit state and local government employees, college students and people from outside organizations, according to the  Columbus Dispatch.  State election officials also encouraged voters to cast early ballots or vote absentee if they want to avoid heading to the polls.
  In addition, voting locations at roughly 125 senior living facilities moved to new locations to avoid spreading the virus to residents of those facilities.
  LaRose's office also told county boards that they will be reimbursed for sanitizers, disinfectants, disinfecting or antibacterial wipes, disposable gloves, rubbing alcohol or isopropyl alcohol, and other sanitizing materials,  the Dispatch reported .
  While Gov. Mike DeWine signed an order Thursday banning most gatherings of 100 or more people, the order did not count to voting locations.
  DeWine, in an appearance on NBC's "Meet the Press" Sunday, confirmed the state is still holding its election Tuesday, adding that officials have been urging voters to cast their ballots early.
  “We're going to go ahead,” DeWine said. “But we're telling people, again, to be careful.”
  Arizona had  16 cases of the coronavirus  as of Monday afternoon. 
  Maricopa County, the state's most populous county and where Phoenix is located, will  cut about 80 polling locations Tuesday  after the locations canceled or poll workers canceled their shifts. In addition to not enough poll workers, there are not enough cleaning supplies to stock all polling locations, according to the  The Arizona Republic . 
  But of the 151 polling locations that remain in the county, voters will be allowed to vote at any location, not just the one nearest to their residence.
  "Folks should come on Election Day if they want to vote," Supervisor Bill Gates said. "It's going to be safe, and there will be many places to do that."
  In another issue, the Maricopa County recorder on Friday was stopped from  mailing ballots to registered Democrats  who had not yet voted in Tuesday's primary.
  County recorder Adrian Fontes said Friday that his "first concern is to protect the health of the voters and staff who work in the polling places while maintaining the integrity of the election." His plan was to have voters receive a ballot in the mail on Monday or Tuesday and then drop it off at a polling place.
  “Anything we can do to minimize human interaction in the polling place is what we must to do,” Fontes said at the time.
  But Arizona Attorney General Mark Brnovich said Fontes "cannot unilaterally rewrite state election laws" and filed a lawsuit against the recorder, seeking a temporary restraining order to prevent him from sending out ballots. 
  A Maricopa County Superior Court judge on Friday night agreed with Brnovich and granted the restraining order, stopping Fontes from mailing ballots.
  There are at least  155 cases of the coronavirus in the state , and at least five people have died. 
  Florida officials have moved voting locations across the state from areas where those who could be vulnerable to coronavirus live.
  In Leon County, home to the state capital, Tallahassee, two precincts at assisted living facilities were moved to minimize possible exposure to vulnerable older people, the  Tallahassee Democrat  reported.
  In Broward County, a dozen precincts out of 421  have been moved , most of them from retirement homes to other public locations such as libraries, elementary schools or community centers.
  Miami-Dade County will keep six precincts at senior facilities so voters who live there can vote on site,  the Miami Herald reported . But all other voters assigned to that precinct must vote at newly assigned locations.
  "Our recommendation would be if there's a polling location in assisted living facility, allow the residents to vote there," Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis said at a news conference last week. "But maybe the general public should have the option or be directed to go to a different polling location."
  Some counties in Florida were also experiencing a drop in poll workers. In Palm Beach County, 762 people said they could not work as poll workers as of Sunday night,  The Palm Beach Post reported .
  There are still currently 2,848 poll workers. Many of the poll workers in that county are over 60, making them a demographic at risk of the coronavirus, according to The Post.
  In addition, election officials said they will provide hand sanitizer, clean voting equipment and additional training to poll workers. Election officials encouraged voters to vote early or during the off-peak hours of 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. on Election Day.
  DeSantis maintained as the week continued that the state was "definitely voting" Tuesday.
  “They voted during the Civil War. We’re going to vote,” DeSantis said in a news conference Friday.
  As of Monday morning, there are  93 confirmed cases of the coronavirus  in Illinois. 
  Like some other states voting Tuesday, the biggest change in Illinois is moving polling locations from senior living facilities.
  In Chicago alone, 168 of 2,069 polling places have had to move. Chicago Board of Elections Chair Marisel Hernandez reminded voters in a news conference Sunday to check the city's Board of Elections website to locate their polling place in case of changes and to practice "social distancing" when voting.
  "Extraordinary times call for extraordinary measures,"  she said . "This is what’s happening right now with our upcoming election on Tuesday."
  The Chicago Board of Election said vote by mail applications have also hit an all-time high, with 117,813 applications received, according to the  Chicago Tribune . 
  Early voting hours in some areas have also been extended. The  Chicago Board of Elections extended hours  for the Friday, Saturday and Sunday before Tuesday's election. Early voting will also be available Monday.
  Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker said Sunday that "we're going to go ahead with" the election.
  “But we've been extra-careful at all of our polling places," he said on NBC's "Meet the Press." "Everybody is practicing good hygiene. And we're making sure that it's safe for people to come and vote. The schools are closed, so many people will be voting in schools. And there won't be big crowds.”
  Contributing: Jessica Boehm, The Arizona Republic; Rick Rouan, The Columbus Dispatch; Jeff Burlew, Tallahassee Democrat; The Associated Press  
 