Our live coverage of the coronavirus outbreak has moved  here . 
  Three new cases of coronavirus have been reported in Colorado.
  Authorities in Douglas County report two additional cases in their county. The first case is an adult who returned from a trip to Italy. The second is a student who returned from a trip to the Philippines. 
  The Eagle County Public Health Department announced their first presumptive positive case. The patient is a woman in her 50s visiting the area and likely exposed during international travel. She is not hospitalized and is recovering in isolation. 
  This is the eighth case of a positive or presumptive positive in Colorado.
  Kentucky’s governor has confirmed the state’s first case of coronavirus this afternoon.
  Gov. Andy Beshear identified the person is in Lexington and they are being treated in isolation. Beshear has filed a state of emergency and activated the state’s emergency operations center.   
  
  
  Passengers aboard the Grand Princess cruise off the coast of California learned that 21 people aboard the ship tested positive for the novel coronavirus by watching Vice President Mike Pence’s announcement this afternoon.
  In an audio address aboard the cruise after Pence’s news conference, the ship’s captain apologized to passengers over the loudspeaker.
  The captain went on to say the individuals will be notified of the test results by the ship doctor as soon as possible. This includes two guests and 19 crew members.
  
  Hear more: 
  
  
  
  A nursing home resident in Kirkland, Washington, is now hospitalized with coronavirus after repeatedly being discouraged from going to the emergency room, according to the patient’s son.
  Amir Medawar told CNN’s Anderson Cooper this afternoon that he started trying to get mother Odette to the hospital on Sunday when he heard her sounding ill over the phone. 
  Medawar says he called the EvergreenHealth hospital in Kirkland several times, and a nurse there encouraged him to bring his mother to the ER, reserving a room for her. She finally was transported from Life Care Center early Monday morning, according to Medawar. His mother’s coronavirus test was positive, but Medawar says her symptoms are mild, and she is expected to be fine.
  Life Care Centers of America has not responded directly to multiple requests from CNN to address to the concerns of family members. In a written statement released Thursday, company President Beecher Hunter said, “Our clinical team is making personal, one-on-one telephone calls with family members to share information about loved ones and respond to questions.”
  Watch the full interview on Full Circle here. 
   
  Santa Clara County in Northern California has confirmed four new cases of the novel coronavirus. 
  The four cases were confirmed in three men and one woman. Two of the four patients are currently hospitalized and two are isolated at home.
  One case comes from a close contact, one is travel-related and the other two are under investigation.
  By the numbers:  Santa Clara County now has 24 cases of the virus, this brings the state total to 60.
  Health authorities in Argentina announced six new cases of novel coronavirus on Friday, according to a press release from the government of Argentina.
  This brings the country’s total number of cases to eight.
  According to the statement, all six new cases had traveled to different European countries. Those diagnosed with the virus are two women and four men between the ages of 57 and 72-years-old.
  There are 282 cases of the novel coronavirus in the United States, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, as well as state and local governments. 
  According to the CDC there are 49 cases from repatriated citizens. According to CNN Health’s tally of US cases that are detected and tested in the United States through US public health systems, there are 233 cases in 23 states, bringing the total of coronavirus cases to 226.
  This includes presumptive positive cases that tested positive in a public health lab and are pending confirmation from the CDC, and confirmed cases have received positive results from the CDC.
  The United Arab Emirates' Ministry of Health announced 15 new coronavirus cases on its official Twitter account Friday.
  So far seven people in the UAE have "recovered," including two Chinese nationals, according to the health ministry.
  
 