
  Masks or face coverings will be required in public in Miami due to the increase in Covid-19 cases, Mayor Francis Suarez announced during a news conference Monday. The order will go into effect immediately. 
  Until now, masks were only required indoors. Masks will now be required at all times.
  There are various zip codes of most concern, including Little Havana, Suarez said. In these zip codes, Miami will be handing out masks to the public.
  Suarez said the number of hospitalizations, the number of people on ventilators and the number of people in intensive care are up.
  
  
  
  The University of Iowa Athletics Department has reported nine positive Covid-19 tests within the department between last Monday and Sunday, bringing their total tally to 12 positive tests, the department announced.
  No information was provided about whether the positive tests came from students or other athletics staff members or from which sports programs.
  Those who tested positive have been isolated, and others who may have been exposed have been quarantined, according to the university's statement.  
  There are at least 2,291,353 cases of coronavirus in the US, according to  Johns Hopkins University's tally.  
  At least 120,106 people have died in the US from the virus.
  So far on Monday, Johns Hopkins reported 11,478 new cases and 137 deaths. 
  The totals include cases from all 50 states, the District of Columbia and other US territories, as well as repatriated cases. 
  
  
  White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany said President Trump was speaking “in jest” when he said during his  rally Saturday  that he asked administration officials to slow down testing for Covid-19 in the US. 
  McEnany was asked if the President actually made that request during a press briefing on Monday.
  “It was a comment that he made in jest,” McEnany added. “It’s a comment that he made in passing, specifically with regard to the media coverage and pointing out the fact that the media never acknowledges that we have more cases because when you test more people you find more cases.”
  Asked if it was appropriate for Trump to joke about coronavirus when more than 100,000 Americans have died of the virus, McEnany denied it he was joking about the virus.
  “He was not joking about coronavirus. I just said he was joking about the media and their failure to understand the fact that when you test more, you also find more cases,” she said.
  Earlier Monday, Trump did not directly answer when asked by a Scripps reporter if he had requested to pare back testing.
  “If it did slow down, frankly, I think we’re way ahead of ourselves if you want to know the truth,” Trump said. “We’ve done too good a job.”
  CNN’s Kaitlan Collins later asked McEnany about Trump’s comments. McEnany responded that “the President instead used that opportunity to extoll the fact that we’ve done 25 million tests.” 
  
  
  During a morning phone call with governors, Vice President Mike Pence was questioned by Nevada's Democratic governor about President Trump’s claims about slowing down coronavirus testing, according to a person familiar with the call.
  Pence said Trump made the remark as a “passing observation,” the person said. Nevada Gov. Steve Sisolak told Pence the comment was unhelpful.
  What this is about:  At his rally in Tulsa on Saturday, Trump said: "When you do testing to that extent, you're going to find more people, you're going to find more cases. So I said to my people, slow the testing down, please."
  On the call with governors, Pence repeated his assertion that more testing means more positive cases. He also called on the governors of certain states with an increase in cases to describe their response efforts.
  The number of cases of Covid-19 worldwide has surpassed 9 million, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. 
  So far on Monday, the number of coronavirus cases is at 9,003,042 and the worldwide death toll from the virus is 469,122, according to JHU.
  
  
  
  Although a spike in coronavirus cases in Washington, DC caused the data to reset backwards over the weekend — making Monday the 13th sustained day of a decline in community spread – Mayor Muriel Bowser said the District hit the metric of 14 sustained days on Friday, and therefore phase two of reopening is officially effective today.
  Bowser urged residents to continue to exercise "good judgement" and adhere to public health guidance.
  Here's what's reopening in  phase two :
  The mayor was also asked about the announcement Friday that July 4 celebrations at the White House will include a fireworks display over the National Mall.
  Bowser said the celebration will be a federal event held on federal property and that she has been in ongoing conversations with US Interior Secretary David Bernhardt and it is not yet clear what the scope of the event will be. 
  In response to a question about crowd control, Bowser said she expects there to be some traffic mitigation led by the federal government with possible assistance from local law enforcement. She noted that such efforts usually take place due to the holiday parade, which will not take place this year.
  
  
  Two more clinical trials of  hydroxychloroquine  – the drug President Trump has touted as a “game changer” for Covid-19 – have been halted, bringing the total number to at least four.
  The National Institute of Allergies and Infectious Diseases closed a hydroxychloroquine trial early after enrolling only 20 study subjects, according to a statement issued by the institute on Saturday.
  That trial originally intended to enroll about 2,000 Covid patients, according to clinicaltrials.gov.
  The NIAID statement said that they ended the trial because “the rate of participant enrollment has been inadequate for the trial to meet its objectives in a timely manner.”
  The Veterans Health Administration Office of Research and Development denied funding for a proposed hydroxychloroquine study for Covid patients, Dr. Salomeh Keyhani, a researcher at the San Francisco VA Health Care system, told CNN Thursday.
  That trial was supposed to enroll 300 patients, according to clinicaltrials.gov. 
  On Saturday, the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute announced it had halted a trial of more than 500 study subjects.
  After more than 470 participants were enrolled, a data and safety monitoring board recommended that the NHLBI stop the study because, “while there was no harm, the study drug was very unlikely to be beneficial to hospitalized patients with COVID-19.” 
  Pharmaceutical giant Novartis announced Friday it would cancel its study due to challenges recruiting enough participants.
  “The recruitment challenge facing our HCQ trial has made it unlikely that the clinical team will be able to collect meaningful data in a reasonable timeframe to determine the effectiveness of HCQ in treating patients with COVID-19,” according to the Novartis statement.
  Novartis aimed to enroll 444 participants, according to clinicaltrials.gov.
  
  
  
  The University of Michigan is planning to launch its fall semester August 31 with a combination of in-person and remote classes, an adjusted academic calendar, and an emphasis on following public health measures.
  Fall on the Ann Arbor campus will have a different feel this year, according to University President Mark Schlissel, who made the  announcement  in a video message released Monday.
  The university is planning an adjusted academic calendar, with on-campus classes ending at Thanksgiving in the fall to minimize student travel home and back to campus. Winter semester will start later in January, and both the fall and winter breaks will be eliminated.
  According to Schlissel, students will be able to choose from courses in-person, remote and mixed instruction depending on curricular needs. Some students will choose or need to take all their classes remotely, and the university’s 19 schools and colleges will provide a robust set of fully remote classes that will enable most students to make that choice.
  "Students also will see additional changes to their campus experience such as physical distancing requirements in libraries and other common spaces and buildings, limited access to certain areas, additional cleaning, boxed meals and staggered timelines for activities such as move-in and dining," according to the plan.
  There are more than 47,000 undergrad and graduate students on the university's Ann Arbor campus. The university is one of the state's top five employers, and has an economic impact of more than $10 billion for Michigan annually.
  
 