[This briefing has ended. For the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak in the New York area, read  Tuesday’s live coverage .] 
  Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said on Monday that another 478 people had died in New York State, the lowest single-day toll in more than two weeks.
  After saying in recent days that the virus appeared to have reached or passed a peak in the state, Mr. Cuomo said the authorities were now trying to ascertain how gradual the decrease in infection might be in the weeks to come.
  “The question is, how long is the descent, and how steep is the descent?” he said. “Nobody knows. Just as nobody knew how long the ascent was, nobody can tell you how long the descent is.”
  Here were the highlights from Mr. Cuomo’s morning briefing:
  “They are the ones that are carrying us through” the crisis, he said.
  Late in the day, the governor’s office confirmed that Mr. Cuomo was scheduled to meet with President Trump at the White House on Tuesday. Among the things they were expected to discuss were virus testing and the country’s capacity for conducting such testing.
  One nurse said her boss told her to come to work even though she had reported having symptoms consistent with the coronavirus. Another said she was denied virus testing at her own hospital. Other nurses said they had received only one N95 mask to use for a week. 
  The claims, by nurses in New York, were included in lawsuits filed on Monday accusing the state Health Department and two hospital systems of failing to equip nurses with adequate protective gear and of exposing them to unsafe working conditions amid the virus outbreak.
  The lawsuits, filed in state and federal court in New York by the largest nurses’ union in New York, were one of the largest collective legal actions taken against hospitals since the pandemic began. In addition to the state Health Department, the defendants were Montefiore Medical Center and Westchester Medical Center. 
  The union, the New York State Nurses Association, said that at least eight nurses had died in New York State after contracting the virus at work, and at least 84 had been hospitalized. The union has more than 42,000 members.
  Another accusation leveled by the union was that some nurses who had tested positive for the virus were required to return to work after seven days, half the 14-day quarantine period recommended by health officials. 
  In one of the suits, the union asks the court to issue an order directing state health officials to “ensure the immediate provision of sufficient PPE to nurses and health care personnel,” referring to personal protective equipment like masks and impermeable gowns.
  A Montefiore spokeswoman said union leaders had “chosen to attack a system, and the commitment of thousands of their colleagues, who have followed the governor’s emergency orders and are selflessly doing all they can to fight Covid-19 and save lives.”
  A spokesman for the Westchester Medical Center Health Network called the union’s accusations wrong and irresponsible, saying the hospital system’s “focus is, and has always been, protecting our work force.”
  A spokesman for the state Health Department declined to comment on pending litigation, but he said the state continued “to take every step necessary to ensure that health care workers, particularly those who are sampling and providing direct care, have the support and supplies” they needed.
  On Monday, Mr. de Blasio said that New York City’s hospitals had the masks, gloves and ventilators to operate at a “crisis standard,” but still lacked enough surgical gowns to get through the week.
  He asked the federal government, which provided 265,000 Tyvek suits to the city, to help officials obtain more gowns or the supplies required for local producers to make them.
  “It’s hard as an American to take in how ill-prepared this country was in terms of just basic supplies, and how little we make of our own at this point,” the mayor said.
  With complaints of anti-Asian discrimination soaring in New York since the coronavirus outbreak began, the city’s Human Rights Commission is creating a unit to specifically address the issue. 
  From Feb. 1 to April 16, officials said, the commission received 105 complaints of anti-Asian discrimination, compared with five during the same period a year ago. Such complaints accounted for about 40 percent of the 248 virus-related bias complaints the commission said it received from Feb. 1 to April 16.
  The new unit will include two lawyers with expertise in human rights issues and a member of the commission’s Community Relations Bureau, the spokeswoman, Alicia McCauley, said.
  New York officials have been concerned about the backlash the city’s Asian residents and businesses could face amid the outbreak, which began in Wuhan, China.    
  Despite the outbreak’s link to China,  studies have shown  that most cases in New York originated in Europe. That has not stopped some high-profile New Yorkers from continuing to blame Asians for the spread of illness. 
  On Sunday, for instance, John Catsimatidis, the chief executive of the Gristedes Foods supermarket chain and a onetime mayoral candidate, said falsely that the outbreak in New York City was the fault of people flying into Kennedy Airport from China.
  If it seems as if the wail of the ambulance siren has grown less frequent in New York City lately, that’s because it has.
  Mayor Bill de Blasio said on Monday that there were 3,485 medical-emergency calls to 911 on Saturday, many fewer than on an average day in 2019, before the  coronavirus outbreak  began.
  Calls have fallen more than 50 percent since the outbreak’s peak in late March, when there were  more than 7,000 calls  in a single day, more than on Sept. 11, 2001.
  But with the city reporting 363 new deaths on Sunday, Mr. de Blasio warned that it was far too soon to lift restrictions on business and public life in New York.
  In that vein, he announced that all large gatherings and events for June, including the Puerto Rican Day Parade and the Pride March, had been canceled. The two events alone draw millions of people to the city’s streets each summer.
  “When thousands and thousands of people gather in one place, of course, that goes against everything we’re trying to do with social distancing and shelter-in-place,” the mayor said at his daily news briefing. The city canceled May events last week.
  Virus-related deaths rose in New Jersey rose after dropping for several days, but other measures of progress in combating the outbreak were headed in the right direction, Gov. Philip D. Murphy said on Monday.
  Here were the numbers from Mr. Murphy’s afternoon briefing:
  Mr. Murphy said that the flattening of the curve of infection had eased some of pressure on the state’s hospitals and made it possible to save more lives
  “It means that our health care system is in a better position to get ahead, and stay ahead,” he said. “We are not by any means claiming victory, but we are making progress.”
  Those who died of the virus in the past few days, Mr. Murphy said, included  Foday Mansaray , a diplomat from Sierra Leone;  Ray Kenny , the general manager of rail operation at New Jersey Transit; and  Joseph Lobosco , a Passaic County freeholder.
  Those who had recovered included  Jack Allard , a 26-year-old former college All-American lacrosse player, who had been on a ventilator.
  For the first time, New Jersey officials on Monday also released a  detailed list of virus cases and deaths connected to nursing homes  and other long-term care facilities in the state. 
  The state health commissioner, Judith Persichilli, said officials were taking action against a nursing home in Andover where  70 patients have died since March 29 ; at least 30 of the deaths were virus-related. 
  The home, Andover Subacute and Rehabilitation Center II, will be required to hire new staff members and cease all admissions, she said. If the facility does not fulfill the requirements, the state has the authority to relocate residents.
  Ms. Persichilli said that homes that had been identified as deficient would be required this week to submit correction plans to Health Department. Twenty-one facilities had been inspected as of Monday and more inspections were planned this week, she said.
  “We are still hearing concerns” about some homes, Ms. Persichilli said. 
  A few nights ago, after their 18-month-old son went to sleep, Adam Hill and Neena Budhraja sat on their couch in Brooklyn and turned their attention to a pressing need: figuring out who would be the toddler’s legal guardian if the coronavirus swept them away.
  They aren’t just anxious parents. Adam, 37, is an emergency room doctor at Elmhurst Hospital Center in Queens. Neena, 39, is a physician assistant in the emergency room at Woodhull Medical and Mental Health Center in Brooklyn.
  Elmhurst and Woodhull are among the city public hospitals most overwhelmed by the virus, and for the past month, the couple’s days and nights have been a blur of intubating terrified patients, navigating stretchers through crowded hallways and searching for clean equipment.
  The pandemic is putting  unimagined strain on medical workers , exposing them to dangers and emotional stress. At least 130,000 people in the city, and probably many more, have been infected with the virus. More than 11,500 have died of the virus or are presumed to have, at least 26 of them public hospital employees.
  One of Adam’s emergency room colleagues at Elmhurst died in the past week. Neena recently showed up for a shift to learn that a longtime colleague had died after battling the virus for two weeks.
  “It’s all very emotional and it’s already such a stressful time to have that on top of everything else,” Neena said. 
  The state Labor Department said on Monday that it had fixed the problems that hampered the ability of 700 recently laid-off workers to obtaining unemployment benefits.
  The 700 were the only ones left out of roughly 1.2 million applicants who were having lingering trouble getting assistance amid the pandemic, a department official said.    
  Most of the cases involved debit cards from Key Bank, in    Ohio, which distributed the cards to applicants along with their unemployment payments.
  Some unemployed workers told The New York Times  they had asked that benefits be deposited in their bank accounts but had been told instead that they would get a Key Bank card. For some people, the cards did not work; others said they never received cards and could not get anyone on the phone to resolve the problem.
  Of the 700 people, 500 either received a new Key Bank card or switched their payment method to direct deposit. The rest will get one-time checks from the Labor Department that are expected to arrive by Tuesday.
  New York will test 3,000 people for antibodies to the virus starting today, Mr. Cuomo said. 
  Those who test positive for antibodies to the virus are believed to have had it and recovered, and some states have said that such people could be among the first to to return to work first. 
  But scientists and public health officials have raised alarms about the quality of available antibody tests and they have  criticized the federal government for approving the tests  without sufficient scrutiny.
  Mr. Cuomo said on Sunday that antibody testing would be key in guiding the reopening of the state, because finding the number of people who had developed antibodies to the virus would help authorities understand the full extent of its spread.
  “That will tell us for the first time what percent of the population actually has had the coronavirus and is now — at least short term — immune to the virus,” Mr. Cuomo said. “This will be the first true snapshot of what we’re really dealing with.”
  The testing program, run by the state Health Department, will test a random sample of the population, because New York does not have the capacity to widely test its 19 million residents. Customers at grocery stores across the state will be recruited to participate.
 