[This briefing has ended. For the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak in the New York area, read  Wednesday’s live coverage .] 
  The  coronavirus  crisis at New York’s  nursing homes  is even worse than believed. 
  New Health Department statistics released late Monday included the previously undisclosed deaths of more than 1,600 people who were presumed to have died of the virus at nursing homes but who had not received a confirmed diagnosis.     
  By May 3, according to the new data, 4,813 people had died of the virus at nursing homes. The new data did not include  nursing home  residents who died in hospitals. 
  The number of  deaths of nursing home residents , either at homes or in hospitals, was 3,025 on April 28, and approximately 100 more people died at nursing homes from April 29 to May 2, according to state figures.
  Gary Holmes, a Health Department spokesman, said officials had revised the state’s system for gathering and evaluating data from    homes and that figures would probably continue to be revised.
  “This crisis and our response to it continues to evolve,” he said. “And the unprecedented amount and specificity of data we are providing to the public will continue to evolve with it.” 
  David C. Grabowski, a Harvard University researcher who studies nursing homes, said that when the final data is in, nursing homes will probably account for about half of all of the Covid-19 deaths in every state, as they already do in Massachusetts, New Jersey and Pennsylvania, among others.
  “It’s in good facilities and in bad facilities,” he said.
  In New York State, even with the new presumed deaths added, nursing homes account for about 25 percent of the state’s fatalities.
  The homes hit the hardest have been in New York City and its suburbs. Homes in the Bronx had 215 confirmed virus deaths and 446 deaths the virus was presumed to have caused. In Queens, the new numbers showed 358 confirmed deaths and 476 presumed deaths.
  Nursing homes had fought the release of death counts for individual facilities, arguing that a large toll might not indicate poor infection control and might scare families unnecessarily.
  Even after the state started to release data about nursing home deaths on April 17, workers at several homes told The New York Times that their employers were not reporting accurate counts for fear of bad publicity.
  A federal judge on Tuesday  ordered New York election officials to hold the state’s Democratic presidential primary  in June and reinstate all qualifying candidates to the ballot. The ruling came after the vote was  canceled late last month  over concerns about the coronavirus.
  The order, filed by Judge Analisa Torres of Federal District Court in Manhattan, came in response to a lawsuit filed by Andrew Yang, a former Democratic presidential candidate. 
  Mr. Yang sued the New York State Board of Elections last week over its decision in late April to cancel the contest, a move it attributed to health and safety concerns and the fact that the results would not change the primary’s outcome.
  Late Tuesday, Douglas A. Kellner, a co-chairman of the election board, said the panel was “reviewing the decision and preparing an appeal.”
  The decision to cancel the primary drew an immediate backlash from the campaign of Senator Bernie Sanders, whose April decision to  suspend his presidential  made former Vice President  Joseph R. Biden Jr.  the presumptive Democratic nominee.
  An employee at an Amazon warehouse on Staten Island has died after contracting the coronavirus, the company said on Tuesday, weeks after the building was the scene of a protest over what workers said were inadequate safety precautions.    
  The unidentified employee, who was in his late 60s, was last at work at the warehouse on April 5, the company said. He was confirmed to have the virus six days later and had been in quarantine since then, the company said. 
  “We are deeply saddened by the loss of an associate at our site in Staten Island, N.Y.,” Kristen Kish, an Amazon spokeswoman, said in a statement. “His family and loved ones are in our thoughts, and we are supporting his fellow colleagues.
  The Staten Island worker was at least the third Amazon employee to die of complications of the virus, the company said. The others worked  in Hawthorne, Calif . and  Tracy, Calif. 
  By early last month, workers at  more than 50 Amazon warehouses  in the United States had contracted the virus. It was unclear exactly how many workers overall had tested positive for the virus, gotten sick or died of it as of Tuesday. 
  It was also unclear whether the Staten Island worker or any other Amazon employees had contracted the virus on the job. 
  Amazon said that an unspecified number of other workers at the Staten Island warehouse had tested positive for the virus but that the company did not believe the cases were linked. 
  The Verge, which first reported the death of the Staten Island employee, said that at least 29 workers at the warehouse had become sick. 
  The company has faced pressure over whether it has done enough to protect its hundreds of thousands of workers from being exposed to the virus as they continue to pack and ship  products to millions of Americans  amid the pandemic. 
  Amazon has deployed various safety measures at its warehouses, including checking employees’ temperatures and requiring that they wear masks, but there have been protests in several places where workers said they felt unsafe. 
  Last month, New York’s attorney general, Letitia James,  informed Amazon  that her office was investigating whether it had violated federal worker-safety laws and New York’s whistle-blower protections by firing  an employee at the Staten Island warehouse who challenged the company  over its response to the outbreak. 
  The employee, Christian Smalls, had sought better protection for workers at the warehouse as they began to get sick. On March 28, Amazon put Mr. Smalls on quarantine for having had contact with a worker who had contracted the virus.
  Two days later, Mr. Smalls  led a protest  calling for Amazon to close the warehouse temporarily and to improve protections for workers. The company fired him, saying he had violated its policies by leaving quarantine to attend a protest at the building.
  The firing attracted more attention when Vice News published  leaked notes  from an April 1 meeting of top Amazon executives that showed company leaders discussing how to make Mr. Smalls “the face of the entire union/organizing movement.” 
  One executive, according to the notes, said Mr. Smalls was “not smart, or articulate.” Amazon’s general counsel, who wrote the notes, subsequently apologized for the remarks.
  The meeting notes also drew scrutiny from lawmakers, and on Monday, an Amazon vice president  said he had quit  over the recent firings of Mr. Smalls and other workers who raised safety concerns.    
  Amazon  said last week that  online shopping during the pandemic had helped push sales to $75.5 billion in the first quarter, up 26 percent from the comparable period last year and above analysts’ expectations. But profit fell 29 percent, to $2.5 billion, because it cost more to meet the increased customer demand, the company said. 
  Amazon  has said  it plans to spend at least $4 billion on “Covid-related expenses getting products to customers and keeping employees safe.”
  Fifteen children, many of whom had the coronavirus, have recently been hospitalized in New York City with a mysterious syndrome that doctors do not yet fully understand but that has also been reported in several European countries, health officials said on Monday night.
  Many of the children, ages 2 to 15, have shown symptoms associated with toxic shock or  Kawasaki disease, a rare illness in children  that involves inflammation of the blood vessels, including coronary arteries, the city’s health department said.
  None of the New York City patients with the syndrome have died,  according to a bulletin from the health department , which described the illness as a “multisystem inflammatory syndrome potentially associated with Covid-19.”
  The syndrome has received growing attention in recent weeks as similar cases have begun to  appear in European countries  hit hard by the coronavirus, including the United Kingdom, France, Italy and Spain.
  “Even though the relationship of this syndrome to Covid-19 is not yet defined, and not all of these cases have tested positive for Covid-19 by either DNA test or serology,” New York City’s health commissioner, Dr. Oxiris Barbot, said in a statement, “the clinical nature of this virus is such that we are asking all providers to contact us immediately if they see patients who meet the criteria we’ve outlined.”
  Dr. Barbot urged parents to contact a doctor immediately “if your child has symptoms like fever, rash, abdominal pain or vomiting.”
  Gov. Ned Lamont said on Tuesday that in-person classes at all public K-12 schools in Connecticut would be canceled for the rest of the academic year and that online learning would continue, as the state prepares for a partial reopening this month.
  Mr. Lamont’s move came after Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York and Gov. Philip D. Murphy of New Jersey took the same step. Like his fellow governors, Mr. Lamont said he would issue guidance on summer school in the coming weeks. 
  Connecticut schools must continue to provide children who need them meals that can be eaten at home, the governor’s office said in a  news release .    
  Under an earlier order, Mr. Lamont had canceled in-person classes at public K-12    schools through May 20, when officials have said the state would begin a gradual reopening. 
  “I know how important it is for so many students and teachers to finish out the school year, and I was holding out hope — particularly for high school seniors — that we’d at least be able to complete the final few weeks,” Mr. Lamont said in a statement. “But given the current circumstances and to protect everyone’s safety, it has become clear that it’s just not possible.”
  At a subsequent news briefing, Mr. Lamont said he would provide details about the state’s plans for colleges and universities later in the week. 
  The Times is regularly profiling essential workers in the New York region during the pandemic. 
  Where do you live?  Far Rockaway, Queens.
  Where do you work:  Queens and Long Island.
  How has your job changed in the last two months? 
  I worked as a shopper over the summer and when I was home for winter break [he is a student at N.Y.U.]. It was easy money then. Six weeks ago I wasn’t wearing gloves and a mask. Then one day I get a message from a customer asking me to wear P.P.E. and everything changed. Now, with the concern with the health aspect of it all, it can be very stressful.
  What’s been your strangest order? 
  There was an order for 120 packs of eight-pack Gatorades. I obviously couldn’t get it all because the store didn’t have that much and it wouldn’t have fit in my car. But I got all the store had and brought it over. It was a crazy amount of Gatorade.
  Why are you continuing to work as a shopper through this? 
  I see the need for it. As a 19-year-old with no pre-existing conditions I’m able to do this and be less at risk than some others. On a larger scale, knowing that I’m helping to limit the spread means a lot. I’ve done six orders in a couple of hours. That means I stopped six people from going to the store. That’s 30 people a week. If every week I’m stopping 20 people from going out, I’m keeping 100 people a month from going out. I’m stopping the spread.
  More than half of the coronavirus-related deaths in New Jersey have involved people living in long-term care facilities, Mr. Murphy said on Tuesday.
  New Jersey’s attorney general, Gurbir S. Grewal, assembled a task force to examine problems at nursing homes   after alarming reports last month of bodies piled up in a makeshift morgue  at one home prompted state and federal officials to investigate.
  “We know the long-term care issue has been among our biggest challenges if not the biggest,” Mr. Murphy said. “We intend to hold folks accountable and we should.”
  As of Tuesday, 4,151 out of the state’s 8,244 virus-related deaths had been in long-term care facilities
  The state also reported 2,494 new virus cases on Tuesday, more than the 2,239 reported by New York, which has more than twice as many people. 
  New York has recorded more than 320,000 coronavirus cases overall, compared with around 130,000 in New Jersey, but the outbreak appears to have passed its peak in New York. 
  Increased testing in New Jersey is helping to drive up the number of confirmed cases, Mr. Murphy said.
  Mayor Bill de Blasio accused President Trump on Tuesday of “stabbing his hometown in the back” by saying that states hit hard by the virus and led by Democrats should not count on what Mr. Trump called federal “bailouts.”
  In  an interview with The New York Post  published Tuesday, Mr. Trump said it would be “not fair to the Republicans” to give large amounts of aid to states with Democratic governors “that have been mismanaged over a long period of time.”
  “You look at Illinois, you look at New York, look at California, you know, those three, there’s tremendous debt there, and many others,” Mr. Trump said.
  The president made a distinction between what he termed a bailout and “reimbursement for the plague.”
  But Mr. de Blasio jumped on the president’s suggestion that states run by Democrats were less deserving of federal help.
  “Who cares who runs the states?” the mayor said, his voice rising. “The people need help.”
  The mayor held up a letter  that 111 Texas mayors  sent last month to the state’s    governor, a Republican, asking for increased access to federal coronavirus aid. And he cited a  $25 billion aid package  for airlines as hypocrisy on the president’s part.
  Mr. Trump’s comments and the rejoinders from New York’s leaders were the latest round in a continuing squabble between national Republican leaders, including the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, and state and local Democratic officials over the question of federal aid.
  Mr. de Blasio also said that, with the help of the federal health authorities, the city would begin offering antibody testing to health care workers and emergency services workers, with a goal of testing 140,000 people.
  The tests will be available at hospitals, fire houses, police station houses and jails.
  “Any first responder or health care worker who wants to take advantage of it, it will be made available for free,” the mayor said.
  Governor Cuomo also objected to Mr. Trump’s comments at his briefing on Tuesday. Mr. Cuomo said there had not been mismanagement by the states. If anything, he said, any mismanagement had been by the federal government.
  At 1 a.m. on Wednesday, the New York City subway will do something it has not done on a regular basis in at least 50 years.
  It will stop.
  Starting tonight, the subway will close from 1 a.m. to 5 a.m. so that trains can be disinfected — and the homeless people who have been taking shelter on cars can be moved off them and, the authorities say, persuaded to enter shelters and get checked for virus symptoms.
  Mr. Cuomo  ordered the closing last week  as concerns grew that the subways had become  unsanitary rolling homeless camps  as the virus  took a heavy toll on transit workers .
  There have not been many overnight commuters lately in any case. Ridership on the subway is down more than 90 percent, after the governor ordered in March that people not use mass transit unless it was unavoidable.
  With the subway intended strictly for essential workers getting to and from their jobs, only about 11,000 people a night have been using the subway from 1 a.m. to 5 a.m. in recent weeks. 
  To serve those essential workers, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority is increasing overnight bus service with 300 extra buses along 61 different routes,  according to NY1 .
  For workers whose commutes are not well served by buses, the authority is introducing an  “essential connector” program  offering riders who can prove their travel is essential  one free trip on a for-hire vehicle each night ; it will also provide free rides on buses and in  dollar vans . 
  The Police Department said it would deploy more than 1,000 officers across the system to provide security and to help move people off trains.
 