
  
  NFL teams may reopen their facilities beginning Tuesday provided they fit all requirements to do so, league commissioner Roger Goodell outlined in a memo dated Friday.
  The ”Dr. Sills” that Goodell references is NFL chief medical officer Dr. Allen Sills.
  Goodell also writes that a certain amount of players may be permitted to return next month.
   
  Travelers who refuse to wear a mask will not be allowed to travel by train on Amtrak or by bus on Greyhound.
  Representatives from Amtrak and Greyhound Bus told CNN on Friday that passengers will be denied boarding if they are not wearing a face covering.  
  Greyhound says it has given drivers prepackaged face masks to give to riders who do not already have a mask, but those who refuse to wear one “will be denied boarding if they do not wear a face covering.”
  Amtrak is requiring that all customers on trains and inside stations wear masks.
  This week, CNN obtained internal memos detailing major airlines’ mask policies. Most airlines said that passengers would not be allowed to board without a face covering. Most policies said that once on board, the job of flight attendants is to strongly encourage the use of masks and avoid confrontation.
  It’s unclear how strictly Amtrak and Greyhound will enforce their mask policies once people are on board.
  
  
  
  More than 5,300 members of the New York Police Department have returned to work full duty after testing positive for coronavirus, the NYPD announced.
  There are 205 member of the NYPD still out sick with Covid-19. This figure includes 150 uniformed members and 55 civilian members of the NYPD.
  So far, 5,552 members of the department have tested positive for Covid-19.
  Roughly 1,157 uniformed members of the NYPD are still out sick, accounting for 3.2% of that force, the NYPD said.
  
  
  It is almost 6:15 p.m. ET in New York and a lot has happened with the coronavirus pandemic. Catch up on the biggest headlines below:
  Poll workers will be wearing masks at polling centers throughout the state in June and voters who arrive at centers without masks will be provided one and asked to wear it, New Mexico Secretary of State Maggie Toulouse Oliver said Friday.
  Voters are encouraged to cast their votes either by mail or ballot drop off, Oliver said.
  People who have to vote at a center will be provided sanitized pens and masks. Each voting booth will be sanitized between uses, she said.
  The state's primary election is set for June 2.
  
  State parks in Kentucky will be allowed to reopen on June 1, Gov. Andy Beshear said.
  The reopening includes lodging, cabins and golfing, he said.
  The plan excludes state parks that have been designated to help provide temporary housing for some Covid-19 patients.
  The state will also be resuming auto or dirt track racing, fishing tournaments, and reopening aquatic centers and bowling alleys on June 1, he said.
  
  
  Dr. Robert Redfield, director of the US Centers of Disease Control and Prevention, said the department's forecasting models predict deaths from Covid-19 exceeding 100,000 by June 1.
  He tweeted: “CDC tracks 12 different forecasting models of possible  #COVID19  deaths in the US. As of May 11, all forecast an increase in deaths in the coming weeks and a cumulative total exceeding 100,000 by June 1.”
  His tweet comes after researchers at the University of Washington revised the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation model on Tuesday — often cited by the White House — upward to 147,000 coronavirus deaths in the United States by August 4.
  As of 5:40 p.m. ET on Friday, Johns Hopkins University counts 87,184 coronavirus deaths in the United States.
  There are at least 1,439,231   cases of coronavirus in the US and at least 87,184 people have died, according to a tally from Johns Hopkins University. 
  Johns Hopkins on Friday reported   21,457   new cases and   1,286 deaths. 
  The totals include cases from all 50 states, the District of Columbia and other US territories, as well as repatriated cases.
  
  
  Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer said today that sports are not over, but watching the games on television may last a while. 
  Whitmer also stressed the "need a vaccine."
  "And we need to have mass quantities available, or we need to be able to test and acknowledge that we've got some immunity that's built up. We're not there yet," she said.
  The governor said the organizers of leagues understand how important it is to act responsibly. 
  "We can have sports, just the way we observe them may look a little different," Whitmer added. 
  The governor also addressed recent threats against her, saying, "It is never acceptable to make threats of violence to anyone, but our officeholders as well. And so we take them very seriously."
  "I've never felt unsafe because I know that the State Police is a serious organization that is incredibly professional and has got my safety at the center of some of the work that they do," Whitmer added. 
  By the numbers:  Michigan has a total of 50,079 Covid-19 cases and 4,825 deaths.
 