New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio announced Tuesday that he is delaying reopening the nation’s biggest public school system to in-person learning for two weeks after the city’s powerful teachers union complained about inadequate   safeguards and threatened to strike.
  “What would have happened on Sept. 10 now happens on Sept. 21,” De Blasio said at a news conference.
  The announcement came as the  during a pandemic was being fought in districts across the country, often pitting teachers against President Donald Trump's administration, which has been pushing hard to get pupils back into classrooms even in states that continue to see large numbers of new COVID-19 cases.
  In New York City, teachers and staff will be preparing classrooms from Sept. 10 to Sept. 15 so students can learn in safety, de Blasio said. Then from Sept. 16 to Sept. 18, classes will begin online during what de Blasio called a “transitional period.”
  Michael Mulgrew, president of the United Federation of Teachers, was with De Blasio when the mayor announced the change.
  “Our medical experts have stamped this plan, and we now can say that the New York City public school system has the most aggressive policies and greatest safeguards of any school system in America,” said Mulgrew, whose union represents 133,000 teachers and other education workers.
  Among other things, de Blasio promised teachers monthly coronavirus testing for students and staff, although it was not immediately clear how many people at each school would be tested at a time. He also said they would be doing random testing at schools to find the asymptomatic students who could potentially spread the virus to classmates and teachers.
  “Reopening school during an ongoing pandemic is one of the most complex challenges any government anywhere has had to figure out in modern history, and New York City is best positioned to do so,” Schools Chancellor Richard Carranza said. “So many things about this year will be new, but the fundamentals remain the same: the majority of our students plan to return to buildings, students will learn best in person with a caring teacher as often as possible, and we will lead with health and safety every step of the way.”
  Had the UFT walked off the job, they would have been in violation of the so-called Taylor Law, which allows for fining and jailing teachers for striking.
  But in a sign of how concerned teachers were about safety, Mulgrew last month was quick to draw a line in the sand after New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo gave the green light to send kids back to schools.
  "The minute we feel the mayor is trying to force people into a situation that is unsafe, we go to court,” Mulgrew said. “We go to job actions."
  Back in March, when the pandemic was raging in New York City, De Blasio was slow to shut down city schools, even as the Chicago and Los Angeles public schools were switching to online education,  
  Since then, New York has been able to flatten the curve although new cases continue to pop up and public health officials have reported alarming spikes in school districts and universities across the U.S. that have already reopened.
  New York reported 754 new COVID-19 cases, three deaths and an infection rate of less than one percent on Tuesday — a massive improvement over March and April when the state was the nation's hot spot. And while New York continues to lead the nation in total number of COVID-19 deaths with 33,785, states like Florida, Texas and Arizona that began reopening in May at Trump's urging have seen the most deaths and cases in recent months.
  California, a state that took aggressive action early on to deal with the crisis and then saw a big spike when it reopened, leads the nation with 712,512 cases. In recent weeks, however, the number of new cases and hospitalizations appeared to be declining,  .
  While Trump has repeatedly praised his administration’s response to the COVID-19 crisis, the U.S. on Tuesday continued to lead the world in the number of reported cases with more than 6 million and nearly 185,000 deaths, according to  .
  Also, the U.S. also accounts for almost a quarter of the 25.5 million cases and nearly 852,000 deaths worldwide, according to the  .
  Corky Siemaszko is a senior writer for NBC News Digital.
 