In the summer of 2010, my former boss Rep. Darrell Issa, then the top Republican on the House Oversight and Reform Committee, went on MSNBC to attack  President Barack Obama : “Every administration, Republican or Democratic, would like to promote itself, talk about its accomplishments and use government dollars to do it. We just think — our committee in our oversight role — that they’ve crossed the line.”
  House Republicans claimed  that Obama produced “illegal” propaganda in promoting the number of jobs he saved and created through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. I can’t help but wonder where those self-righteous Republicans of the Obama-era are today.  
  Last Monday, President Donald Trump subjected the White House press corps to a  campaign-style propaganda video  that attacked the news media while clumsily attempting to absolve himself of any wrongdoing related to his delayed-response to COVID-19. It was a remarkable and audacious moment. MSNBC immediately cut away with host Ari Melber  telling the audience , “We are going to avoid airing any more of this White House briefing until it returns to what it was supposed to be, which was the Coronavirus Task Force briefing providing medical information." Over at CNN, John King cut away as well saying, “To play a propaganda video at taxpayer expense in the White House briefing room is a new — you can insert your favorite word here for this administration.”
  A leadership manual for Trump: How to take on the coronavirus. It's clear, direct and takes an hour to read 
  On Tuesday, news surfaced that the Treasury Department had issued the  unusual edict that Trump’s name  be printed on all of the checks being issued to the American people as part of the $2 trillion coronavirus bailout package.
  When the Department of Transportation created “ project funded by  the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act” signs to promote the Obama-era stimulus, Republicans on the Oversight Committee launched a full-scale investigation and determined that the department had been “funneling federal dollars through state and local governments  to finance propaganda material .”
  In fact, Republicans found the activities of the Obama administration so egregious that they  produced a report declaring , “Ordinary Americans have financed and been exposed to an unprecedented number of public relations and propaganda efforts,” and “these propaganda efforts violated appropriations riders and federal law prohibiting the use of appropriated funds for publicity or propaganda purposes.”
  The Republicans were so obsessed with the idea of propaganda, they even  called on the Government Accountability Office  to launch an investigation into the “legality of certain public relations and propaganda activities” of the Obama administration.
  When will I get my stimulus check?: We answer this and dozens more of your most-asked questions. 
  As someone who worked for Republicans on the Oversight Committee for five of the eight years that President Obama was in office, I can tell you firsthand that nothing his administration did came remotely close to the blatant display of propaganda that President Trump engaged in last week. And yet, as we have seen time and again throughout this presidency, those Republicans who were so quick to investigate Obama are nowhere to be seen or heard. Those members of Congress, whom I watched day in and day out talk about the importance of oversight, government transparency, accountability to taxpayers, and checks and balances have abandoned those core principles, selling out the American people in the process. If what Trump is doing doesn’t “cross the line,” what the hell does?
  I’m writing this, not with the expectation that any Republican member of Congress will see this and suddenly rediscover their principles. That ship sailed a long, long time ago. What we saw last week is really a measure of how desperate Trump is to rewrite history. By revisiting the actions of Republicans during the Obama era, we can ensure that they are unable to erase the institutional memory of their hypocrisy-filled past.
  Kurt Bardella is an MSNBC contributor and a member of USA TODAY’s Board of Contributors who served as the spokesperson and senior adviser for the House Oversight and Reform Committee from 2009-13. Follow him on Twitter: @ kurtbardella 
 