with Brent D. Griffiths 
  Good morning. Happy to report that ‘ demon sperm ’ is not trending on Twitter this morning. Tips, comments, recipes? Reach out and  sign up.  Thanks for waking up with us.  
  New this morning:  Former CIA director John Brennan says President Trump ordered the agency not to give him access to classified information, despite the CIA routinely letting former heads review such files when writing about their careers, Shane Harris  scoops . (More below.)
  ‘SORT OF SEMI-IRRELEVANT: ’ That's how President Trump described the $1 trillion  coronavirus  relief legislation being crafted by Senate Republicans just days before emergency unemployment benefits expire. It's unclear whether lawmakers can push through the unwieldy package before the Friday deadline and Republicans may turn to a piecemeal, smaller version as a stopgap measure.
  The president's flippant description of the package as the country reels from the novel coronavirus capped another day of tortured negotiations on Capitol Hill over key provisions tearing up Republicans and revealing some cracks of light between them and Trump as his poll numbers  continue to slide  during an election year.
  With over 146,000 American deaths from the novel coronavirus and close to 30 million unemployed, the federal government is inching dangerously close to lapsing on lifelines that have kept households and small businesses afloat. 
  One major sticking point: Trump's push for $1.8 billion for rebuilding the FBI headquarters in downtown Washington — a project that presents potential conflicts of interest  stemming from Trump's own hotel located nearby. 
  By the end of the day,  Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) disavowed the funding:
  “ If the wheels were not entirely off Tuesday, negotiations were not off to a great start,”  our colleagues  Erica Werner, Seung Min Kim and Jeff Stein report . “Democratic leaders accused McConnell of not wanting a deal at all, while one Republican senator called the new GOP bill ‘a mess.’” 
  During a closed-door GOP lunch attended by White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, GOP senators aired their issues with the bill.
  Mo' money, mo' problems  —  at least for some:  “ Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah) spoke up about the lack of amendments and the legislative process, according to GOP sources,” Politico's  Andrew Desiderio, Marianne Levine, and Heather Caygle report.  “And Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.), who opposes a new coronavirus relief measure altogether, stormed out of the lunch meeting early and harangued his colleagues over the $1 trillion price tag, which is almost certain to rise during a negotiation with Democrats.”  
  Red lines:  Expanded unemployment benefits, along with a five-year liability provision to protect businesses from coronavirus-related lawsuits ,  remained the major sticking points between Republicans and Democrats.
  As it currently stands,  “The  GOP plan would slash the $600 [in extra weekly unemployment benefits] to $200 per week until states can transition to a complex new system aimed at replacing 70 percent of what a person earned before they lost their job,” per Erica, Seung Min and Jeff. “Republicans argue that the current benefit gives people an incentive to stay out of work.”  
  Not all Republicans want to see that happen: 
  In an interview with  CNN's John Berman  yesterday morning, House Majority Leader  Steny H. Hoyer  (D-Md.) panned the current GOP bill as “insufficient ”  but appeared open to dipping below the current $600 weekly. 
  Trump, who d id not specify  whether he supports extending the current benefit, vaguely assured reporter yesterday that the aid would be extended:  “We’ll do something. We’re going to take care of the people.”  
  BRENNAN'S BOOK BOMBSHELL:  “After months of ‘haggling,’ Brennan learned that the CIA was following the orders of the man he had spent the previous two years publicly excoriating — [Trump], who in August 2018 ‘had issued a directive … that purportedly forbids anyone in the intelligence community from sharing classified information with me,’” our colleague  writes . The White House confirmed and defended the order.
  The book, “ Undaunted: My Fight Against America’s Enemies, at Home and Abroad, ”   is scheduled to be published on Oct. 6. Shane reviewed portions of it before its release.
  Among the details Brennan recounts,  the now infamous Jan. 6, 2017 Trump Tower briefing with the then-president elect about Russian interference in the election: “Trump’s alertness never faded during the briefing, but his demeanor as well as his questions strongly revealed that he was uninterested in finding out what the Russians had done or in holding them to account,” Brennan writes. 
  The former director says Trump suggested “it could have been the Chinese”:  “We each took turns debunking his counterclaims,” Brennan writes, noting the intelligence directors were unanimous in their conclusions Russia had engaged in “an intense, determined, and broad-based effort” to interfere in the election.
  Nyet:  Meanwhile, Trump told Axios's Jonathan Swan he has not confronted Russian President Vladimir Putin over U.S. intelligence indicating that bounty payments were paid by Russia to the Taliban in exchange for killing U.S. troops in Afghanistan.
  NO, THIS IS NOT THE ONION :  During a coronavirus briefing yesterday,Trump praised a doctor who made unsubstantiated claims about hydroxychloroquine in a viral video multiple social media companies have tried to remove from their platforms. The president's words were further complicated by the doctor's history of outlandish statements, “including  that the uterine disorder endometriosis is caused by sex with demons that takes place in dreams,”  Travis M. Andrews and Danielle Paquette report . 
  More on the doctor who warns of demons:  This all came up because on Monday night Donald Trump Jr., and later the president himself, retweeted a video with Stella Immanuel, a Houston doctor who spoke during a news conference on the steps of the Supreme Court. She was part of a group dubbed “America’s Frontline Doctors," which claimed "neither masks nor shutdowns are necessary to fight the pandemic, despite a plethora of expertise to the contrary,” our colleagues write. Breitbart live-streamed the gathering.
  “Kind of makes you miss Chuck Woolery, doesn't it?” CNN anchor Anderson Cooper deadpanned last night, referring to  the former game show  host and conservative commentator.
  Even in a pandemic, it's all about becoming pop-you-lar:  “Trump said his relationship with Anthony S. Fauci is ‘very good’ but wondered why the doctor's approval rating is so high when his is so low,”  CNN's Kevin Liptak reports .
  The president says he agrees with most of what Fauci says. But he lamented the doctor's following with the American public. 
  YOUR GUIDE TO THE HISTORIC TECH HEARING:  The industry's four powerful CEOs are set to testify before House lawmakers today in a historic moment that brings together Silicon Valley and its $5 trillion slice of the U.S. economy and Washington,  Tony Romm reports .
  What's happening:  Jeff  Bezo of Amazon, as well as Tim Cook of Apple, Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook and Sundar Pichai of Alphabet, which owns Google, will all testify remotely before the House Judiciary's antitrust panel. Bezos has never testified in front of Congress before. (Bezos owns The Washington Post.) 
  What is this about?:  Over a year now, Congress has been investigating antitrust allegations and whether tech's biggest companies have become too powerful.
  When/where to watch:  The hearing starts at noon Eastern. Our Post colleagues will have live coverage starting at 11:30 a.m. and continuing after the hearing, which  you can watch here . (Bonus: You can set a reminder to watch through that link.)
  THE PREBUTTAL:  “[ Bezos] cited the e-commerce company’s ‘customer obsession' for fueling its business success as he attempts to counter congressional antitrust concerns a day ahead of a House hearing probing the power of tech giants,”  Jay Greene and Elizabeth Dwoskin report .
  What the other CEOs will say: 
  Republicans are already attacking Democrats:  GOP Judiciary staffers are “accusing Democrats of harboring ‘predetermined conclusions’ about the outcome of a Silicon Valley probe that Congress is ‘ill-equipped’ to carry out,”  Politico's Betsy Woodruff Swan, Cristiano Lima and Leah Nylen report .
  UNMASKING ONE OF AMERICA'S BIGGEST COVID FAILURES:  “The mask is the simplest and among the most effective weapons against the coronavirus in the public health arsenal. Yet from the start, America’s relationship with face coverings has been deeply fraught,”  Griff Witte, Ariana Eunjung Cha and Josh Dawsey report .
  Yes, a number of health experts have changed their views:  “If you acted on the best information you had at the time and then later you get new evidence that points in a different direction, does that mean what you did three months ago was wrong? Well, existentially, yes it was. But it was based on the evidence we had at the time,” Fauci told our colleagues in an interview.
  The White House has long had a tenuous relationship with masks:  “In the last week of March — as the official case count was approaching 100,000 — the CDC presented what was then considered a radical proposal to the White House, recommending routine masking by the public. Senior administration officials, particularly members of the vice president’s office on the coronavirus task force, pushed back, arguing it was unnecessary,” our colleagues write.
  Even after experts like Fauci changed their views, the administration wouldn't budge:  “That was a problem,” he told our colleagues.
  THE VEEPSTAKES END NEXT WEEK:  “Joe Biden said that he will make a decision on his running mate by the end of the first week in August, adding at most a week to his initial self-imposed deadline of Aug. 1 for determining his campaign partner,”  Annie Linskey and Sean Sullivan report .
  Biden also unveiled a plan to boost black and Latino finances:  “The plan calls for dedicating $30 billion of previously proposed spending on a small business opportunity fund for black, brown and Native American entrepreneurs. Biden also proposed tripling the goal for federal contracting with small disadvantaged businesses, from 5 percent to at least 15 percent of all spending on materials and services by 2025,”  Maura Ewing and Sean reports .
  And in case you were wondering if Biden is  still upset  at a leading No. 2 contender, Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.), we all got to see this photo of his notes that made clear otherwise:
  ICYMI, here is Rep. Pramila Jayapal (D-Wash.)  calling out  Attorney General William P. Barr on the Hill yesterday:
 