with Brent D. Griffiths
  Good Monday morning. This week will be a week. Stay at home.  Thanks for waking up with us. 
  THE CORONA-VACCINE RACE:  The desperate search for a vaccine for covid-19, the disease caused by the novel  coronavirus , is in full swing around the world as public health experts warn that it's the only long-term solution to curb the virus that has so far killed more than 69,000 people. 
  “I think things are going to be permanently changed coming out of this until we get to a vaccine and we can fully vanquish this,”  former Food and Drug Administration commissioner Scott Gottlieb said on  CBS News's “Face the Nation. ”   
  The timing:  As the death toll in the U.S. climbed past 9,500, President Trump on Sunday evening proclaimed that the U.S. is already “very far down the line on vaccines.”  But a vaccine probably isn't imminent: Experts predict that developing a vaccine to distribute could be a 12 to 18 month process.  
  Still, that represents an unprecedented timetable in vaccine years.  The process normally  can take a decade or more  to receive regulatory approval.  Coronavirus has sparked the fastest vaccine-searching process in history as dozens of initiatives are already underway.  
  The players: Boston-based biotechnology company, Moderna Inc., in partnership with the National Institutes of Health, became the first company to reach a clinical trial in mid-March. 
  Pharmaceutical giant Johnson & Johnson also jumped into the fight,  announcing last week  a partnership with the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (BARDA) “with the goal of providing global supply of more than one billion doses of a vaccine.”  
  Another promising test is by   University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine,  whose scientists said their potential vaccine, “when tested in mice … produces antibodies specific to SARS-CoV-2 at quantities thought to be sufficient for neutralizing the virus,” per  Pittsburgh Wire's Erin Hare . 
  Then there's this unlikely company: “Lucky Strike owner  British American Tobacco  PLC is developing a potential vaccine grown in tobacco plants,   while Medicago Inc., a biotech firm partly owned by Marlboro maker  Philip Morris International Inc.,  is pursuing a similar effort,”  the  Wall Street Journal's Saabira Chaudhuri and Denise Roland report.  
  The obstacles: The actual deployment of the vaccine could take a lot longer than the abbreviated timeline Trump  has pushed.  “So although this is the fastest we have ever gone from a sequence of a virus to a trial, it still would not be applicable to the epidemic unless we really wait about a year to a year and a half,” Fauci  explained  in early March. 
  But many experts say even that is too optimistic, given the normal FDA process requires that scientists prove a vaccine has no serious side effects.  If the FDA grants an authorization for emergency use, as it has done with other products during the pandemic thus far, the typical process can be bypassed. But still, t housands of people must be tested to prove the vaccine's “ efficacy and safety, ”  according to the  FDA's product approval guidelines. 
  There's still the issue of scaling up a vaccine for mass distribution, even with fast-tracked development and approval.  
  A more immediate solution:  The timetable is a huge reason why experts such as Gottlieb insist that there should be as much of an effort toward developing a therapeutic drug to treat those who have the coronavirus, in order for people to resume life as usual as quickly as possible:  
  Trump's apparent solution:  There is one drug that Trump himself has aggressively pushed, despite the only limited research on its efficacy for people with covid-19: the anti-malarial hydroxychloroquine. “We don’t have time to go and say, ‘Gee, let’s take a couple of years and test it out,’" Trump told reporters. “I’d love to do that, but we have people dying today.” Trump said the federal government bought and stockpiled 29 million pills of the drug. 
  ‘OUR PEARL HARBOR MOMENT’:  “Americans are being advised to steel themselves for one of the most agonizing weeks in living memory, as [Trump] and his advisers predicted parts of the country were nearing a peak of cases of covid-19,”  our colleagues Isaac Stanley-Becker, Aaron Gregg and William Booth report .
  HEADLINES FROM THE HOT SPOTS:  Power Up's continuing look at how the virus is affecting states and cities throughout the country.
  NEW YORK: 123,160 cases  (628 per 100k)  | 4,159 deaths  (21 per 100k)
  Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo says the crisis may be plateauing, but cautions that it's still too early to tell:  “The number of deaths in the state has reached 4,159, Mr. Cuomo said. But, notably, there were slightly fewer fatalities on Saturday than on Friday,”  the New York Times reports .
  A Bronx zoo tiger tests positive:  “It’s the first time, to our knowledge, that a [wild] animal has gotten sick from covid-19 from a person,”  Paul Calle , chief veterinarian for the Bronx Zoo  told National Geographic's  Natasha Daly . “ The Malayan tiger, named Nadia, likely contracted the coronavirus from an infected  —  but unknown  —  asymptomatic zookeeper.”  
  NEW JERSEY: 37,505 cases  ( 422 per 100k)  |  917 deaths  (10 per 100k)
  Gov. Phil Murphy (D) says his state is just about a week behind New York:  “Hospitals in the state are scrambling to convert cafeterias and pediatric wings into intensive care units. Ventilators are running low. One in three nursing homes has at least one resident with the virus,”  the Times's Tracey Tully reports .
  Even with the second-most cases nationally, it's unclear just how many residents are infected:  That's “ because the state officials say test results are backed up by as much as two weeks and the state is not reporting how many people have recovered so far,”  NJ Advance Media for NJ.com's Matt Arco reports .
  LOUISIANA: 13,010 cases  (279 per 100k) |  477 deaths  (10 per 100k)
  Gov. John Bel Edwards says his state could run out of ventilators by the end of the week:  “ Every day we get new information that informs our modeling. We now think it's probably around the 9th of April before we exceed our ventilator capacity based on the current number on hand and that we're a couple of days behind that on ICU bed capacity being exceeded, ”     Edwards (D)  told CNN's Jake Tapper.  
  Makeshift morgues are being set up in New Orleans:  “ One funeral home director compared the body storage situation with Hurricane Katrina. Others said it brought to mind the yellow fever epidemic of the 1800s, when undertakers became overwhelmed and the Crescent City became known as the nation’s ‘necropolis,’”   the Times-Picayune | New Orleans Advocate's Della Hasselle and Bryn Stole report .
  MICHIGAN:  15,718 cases  ( 158 per 100k)  |  617 deaths  (6 per 100k) 
  Gov. Gretchen Whitmer slammed a patchwork response to the pandemic:  “ Not having a national strategy where there is one policy for the country, as opposed to patchwork, based on whomever the governor is, is something that I think is creating a more porous situation where covid-19 will go longer and more people will get sick and, sadly, more lives will get lost,”  Whitmer (D) told Chris Wallace on “Fox News Sunday.” 
  The auto industry is in the midst of greatest effort since WWII:  “Hundreds of autoworkers and engineers and thousands of global suppliers are answering the call for help with remarkable speed in an effort becoming known as the “Arsenal of Health,” a reference to Detroit's military production surge during World War II,”  the Detroit News's Breana Noble and Kalea Hall report .
  MASSACHUSETTS:  12,500 cases  ( 183 per 100k)  |  231 deaths  (3 per 100k)
  Gov. Charlie Baker (R) announced the state has received 100 ventilators from the federal government:  The state requested 1,000. “We are planning for a variety of scenarios,” Baker told reporters,  the Boston Herald's Erin Tiernan reports . “Now obviously we’d love to have every single piece of gear we need, as we come into it — but we’re going to make adjustments as we go.”
  Boston Mayor Marty Walsh institutes citywide curfew:  “Walsh (D) said the recommended curfew will be in place between 9 p.m. and 6 a.m. starting [today] and running at least through May 4,”  the Boston Globe's Andy Rosen reports . Walsh is also directing Bostonians to wear masks when they are outside their homes.
  THE LATEST FROM THE DMV:  “The Washington region’s battle with the novel coronavirus intensified, as the number of confirmed cases soared to more than 7,000,”  our colleagues Ian Shapira, Rachel Chason, Fenit Nirappil and Hannah Natanson report. 
  Maryland announced its largest single-day increase in confirmed cases at 484:  Gov. Larry Hogan (R) issued an emergency order concerning nursing homes :  Nursing home staff are now required to wear protective gear and segregate infected patients to halt the spread of the disease following outbreaks in the state’s long-term care facilities, our colleagues write.
  D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) said that the city's estimates projected that 93,000 Washingtonians could eventually become infected:  The city uses a different model than the federal government, which  our colleague Fenit Nirappil explained last week . As of Sunday morning, The District has over 1,000 confirmed cases.
  The outbreak could also worsen class divisions in the region:  “The economic damage … has hit the region’s middle- and low-income residents hardest, and for now it has crushed the hopes of many to improve their lot,”  our colleague Robert McCartney reports.  “The sudden shutdown of large sectors of the local economy will widen the gap between affluent households and those living paycheck to paycheck, according to urban experts, economists and other analysts.”
  JOHNSON HOSPITALIZED, THE QUEEN SPEAKS:  Prime Minister Boris Johnson was admitted to the hospital after suffering “persistent” symptoms of the virus,  our colleague William Booth reports from London . He tested positive for the virus just 10 days ago.
  Queen Elizabeth II gave a rare televised speech to the British people:  She urged the British people “to show their self-discipline and quiet resolve during the coronavirus pandemic that has taken nearly 5,000 lives here,” our colleague writes.
 