with Brent D. Griffiths
  Good morning  all you cool cats and kittens . Happy Monday. Tips, comments, recipes? Reach out and  sign up . Thanks for waking up with us.  
  NOT SO FAST:  Abruptly reversing his vow to open the country by Easter, President Trump  instead extended  federal guidance on social distancing until April 30 aimed at slowing the spread of the novel coronavirus. Trump's announcement last night came after Anthony S. Fauci, the longtime director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease,  said  the virus could cause “between 100,000 and 200,000” American deaths (he stressed the higher number was a worst case scenario).
  Following the data:   Trump declared from the Rose Garden the U.S. death toll is likely to peak in two weeks.  The president said his previous goal of lifting restrictions by April 12 was “just an aspiration,” but his change of heart followed wide criticism from public health experts and  even some Republican lawmaker s that acting too soon to reopen the country could be disastrous. The president instead predicted “we will be well on our way to recovery” by June 1.
  By the numbers: The president's about face capped a heartbreaking weekend in which the number of  U.S. cases rose to 140,000 , with deaths reaching 2,000 people. 
  Birx issued a dire warning Sunday morning foreshadowing the president's announcement, calling on every state to implement “full mitigation” measures. She also called on governors to prepare for the pandemic “like New York is preparing now”: 
  Reminder:  The  federal guidelines recommend  avoiding discretionary travel, working from home whenever possible, avoiding social gatherings of more than 10 people, and practicing good hygiene. 
  Three-pronged war:  Trump, who now fashions himself a  “wartime president”  in a reelection year, is not only fighting the virus. He is also still sparring with two other constituencies key to helping Americans get through the pandemic: the nation's governors, and the media.
  The president claimed in his Sunday news conference that governors are “happy with the job we're doing.” But that belied the reality of the situation in states dealing with virus hot spots. The tactics could backfire on him during an election year: 
  On Sunday morning, several governors continued to sound the alarms for additional help from the federal government in addressing shortages of ventilators, N95 masks and personal protective equipment for front-line medical personnel.  
  But Trump  claimed  that Democrats simply “don't want to give this administration credit. ”   
  Trump also continued to target the media, a longtime foil, through a stream of angry tweets about the “ Lamestream Media ”   and in the Rose Garden by facing off publicly with individual reporters.
  HEADLINES FROM THE HOT SPOTS:  The  coronavirus  pandemic is international in scope and has engaged almost every facet of the federal government. But many of its effects will be felt at a deeply local level. 
  Power Up will continue to highlight the incredible reporting from our colleagues, but also the amazing local news organizations on the ground in many communities that are preparing for a peak that in some places is just days away.
  NEW YORK: 
  Over 1,000 people have died in the state:  “The numbers are staggering,” Mayor Bill de Blasio told reporters,  per the New York Times . Of that 1,000, more than 70 percent have died in New York City.
  LOUISIANA: 
  The state’s nurses are facing impossible choices:  “With shortages of personal protective equipment now affecting most hospitals in southern Louisiana, nurses are facing a difficult choice: hunting for protective attire like an N95 mask, or rushing to save a patient on the brink of cardiac arrest,”  the Times-Picayune|the Advocate’s Andrea Gallo, Blake Paterson and Matt Sledge report .
  MICHIGAN: 
  The state could be more than 10,000 hospital beds short when it reaches its peak:  “University of Washington researchers are estimating Michigan hospitals will hit peak coronavirus demand on April 8 and that the state is about 10,563 hospital beds short of what will be needed that day,”  the Detroit News’s Beth LeBlanc reports .  That’s just nine days away. 
  THE LATEST IN THE DMV:  “The Washington region reported its single-deadliest day in the coronavirus outbreak, with 16 fatalities announced Sunday, bringing the total number of deaths to 51,”  our colleagues Kyle Swenson, Rebecca Tan and Laura Vozzella report .
  There are now a total 2,536 cases in the region: 
  Other key developments: 
  Trump approved a disaster declaration for the District:  “The designation means the city will receive an unspecified amount of money from the Federal Emergency Management Agency to support its efforts to recover from the coronavirus pandemic,” our colleagues write.
  Seven Metro employees have tested positive:  One of them had to be hospitalized, the transit agency said,  our colleague Justin George reports .
  DOJ PROBING LAWMAKERS' TRADES:  “The inquiry, which is still in its early stages and being done in coordination with the Securities and Exchange Commission, has so far included outreach from the FBI to at least one lawmaker, Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.), seeking information about the trades, according to one of the sources,”  CNN's David Shortell, Evan Perez, Jeremy Herb and Kara Scannell report .
  Scrutiny, and  multiple  reports , have focused on whether lawmakers used information from private briefings about the coronavirus to inform their trades:  “Burr, who heads the Senate Intelligence Committee, has previously said that he relied only on public news reports as he decided to sell between $628,000 and $1.7 million in stocks on February 13. Earlier this month, he asked the Senate Ethics Committee to review the trades given ‘the assumption many could make in hindsight,’ he said at the time,” CNN reports.
 