with Brent D. Griffiths
  It's Friday. We made it. Have a responsible, socially distanced, and masked long weekend, friends. Thanks for waking up with us. See you on Monday.  
  Death toll:  As of this morning, at least 93,000 Americans have died and at least 1,570,000 cases of the novel coronavirus have been reported since Feb. 29, per  The Post's tracker.  
  UNMASKED IN MICHIGAN:  Masks are now the most visible partisan flash point in the American fight to stop the spread of the novel  coronavirus . And in Michigan especially — a political and coronavirus hotspot where protests against restrictions on movement and the economy have turned violent — face coverings are emblematic of the political divide. 
  President Trump's decision to go barefaced at a Ford manufacturing plant visit yesterday was yet another shot at the popular Michigan governor who has drawn Trump's ire. Gov. Gretchen Whitmer (D) issued an executive order mandating the use of face coverings in enclosed public spaces — and  requires  manufacturing facilities in Michigan to “suspend all nonessential in-person visits, including tours.”
  New low:  The president's decision to go unmasked in a state he must win in November may not be looked upon warmly by voters, who give  him  a 39 percent approval rating  fo r his handling of the pandemic in a new ABC News/Ipsos poll released Friday morning. That means  60 percent of Americans disapprove  of the way Trump is handling the virus, driven by  falling numbers among independents. 
  In Michigan, Trump declined to wear a mask in front of the cameras  and claimed it was “not necessary” in a specific part of the factory, which is producing ventilators and masks during the pandemic. The president was surrounded by Ford executives who, in accordance with company policy, wore masks during the entire tour: 
  Despite the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's  recommendation that  people should use a face covering to help slow the spread of covid-19, the decision to wear a mask has become deeply political. In Michigan, it's even been the cause of violence. 
  Trump's feud with the popular governor in an important battleground state for his reelection campaign might be ill-advised:  Michigan voters are generally supportive of Whitmer's handling of the crisis and she's received higher marks for it from voters than the president. 
  Most Michiganders agree with Whitmer:  “Overall, 86% of Michigan voters surveyed believed the virus is a threat to public health, with support at that level or higher among self-described Independents, Democrats and even voters who say they lean Republican. Better than three-quarters of women who identified as strongly Republican agreed with that opinion as well. But it was far lower — at only 58% — among strongly Republican men,” according to a poll released last week by the  Detroit Regional Chamber of Commerce . 
  Some of Trump's own campaign advisers   “said they viewed [Trump's] attacks on Michigan in particular as unwise,  given internal GOP polling showing he is trailing in the state,” according to our colleagues  Amy Gardner, Josh Dawsey, Jeff Stein and John Wagner.  
  On the heels of Trump's visit, Whitmer scored a legal victory:  a judge ruled she did have the legal authority to extend a state of emergency in response to the pandemic. 
  CHINA DROPS THE HAMMER ON HONG KONG:  “China's Communist Party will impose a sweeping national security law in Hong Kong by fiat during the annual meeting of its top political body, officials said, criminalizing ‘foreign interference’ along with secessionist activities and subversion of state power,”  Shibani Mahtani, Anna Fifield, Tiffany Liang and Timothy McLaughlin report  from the city.
  Beijing is unilaterally rewriting the ‘one country, two systems’ framework:  That approach has allowed Hong Kong, a global financial hub, to enjoy a level of autonomy for the past 23 years. “The new tactic marks an escalation [of the] crackdown in the former British colony and the clearest indication that Beijing views Hong Kong as a restive region to be brought to heel after last year’s protests,” our colleague writes. ( Siobhán O'Grady and Miriam Berger have a helpful explainer  filling in the gaps on how we got here.)
  The U.S. response:  “The city’s future has become a point of contention in the intensifying rivalry between China and the United States,” our colleagues write.
  DMV MOVING TOWARD REOPENING:  “D.C. Mayor Muriel E. Bowser (D) said the city could begin a phased reopening by next Friday, May 29, and Prince George’s County executive Angela D. Alsobrooks (D) said the county is on track to be ready for a modified reopening June 1, if current trends continue,”  Rebecca Tan, Fenit Nirappil and Ovetta Wiggins report .
  What a first phase would mean for The District : “Reopening of barbershops and hair salons by appointment, outdoor restaurant dining, parks, fields, golf courses and tennis courts, worship services with no more than 10 people, and curbside service for nonessential retailers,” our colleagues write.
  It may take a lot longer for schools to reopen:  “Students in the nation’s capital should not return to full, in-person learning until there is a reliable vaccine or cure for the coronavirus, according to recommendations released by a group of advisers appointed by Bowser,”  Perry Stein reports .
  MAN WHO FILMED ARBERY’S DEATH CHARGED WITH MURDER:  “Georgia authorities on Thursday arrested a third person connected to the fatal shooting of Ahmaud Arbery, the black 25-year-old whose family says he was jogging when two white men in a pickup truck approached and killed him, prompting nationwide calls for justice,”  Michael Brice-Saddler reports .
 