with Brent D. Griffiths
  Good Morning. It's Wednesday. Tips, comments, recipes? Reach out and  sign up . Thanks for waking up with us.  
  THE SPAGHETTI ON THE WALL CAMPAIGN:  President Trump yesterday insisted he's not the underdog in his  reelection  bid against presumptive Democratic nominee Joe Biden. Citing “real polls,” “ thousands of boats with Trump signs”  in  Intercoastal  Florida, and a “silent majority,” the president  haphazardly dismissed his prospects of losing before wandering toward an explanation for why his support is waning. 
  “I think a lot of people don’t want to talk about” supporting him, Trump said about his political prospects during an unofficial campaign rally masked as a news conference in the Rose Garden.  
  By Trump's own admission, there's no shortage of things to tackle during the rest of his first term. Yet his rambling speech hardly addressed the challenges of historic proportions currently facing him.  Coronavirus   cases  are hitting new highs and the recession triggered by the pandemic is now expected to be  more protracted  than initially anticipated.  
  Instead, Trump took the “Rose Garden strategy” to a new level, and used a presidential event to air a laundry list of grievances against Biden on live television. For over an hour, the president ping-ponged between attacks on China, Biden and the Green New Deal. He invoked his opponent's name nearly 30 times on a range of topics, and despite his claims otherwise, sounded  like an underdog on shaky ground throwing spaghetti at the wall to find a new message that might stick. 
  Trump touched on the topics of illegal immigration, trade with Europe, crime in Chicago and New York, the state of air conditioning in green buildings, etc. “There’s probably never been a time when candidates are so different,” Trump finally concluded before taking a handful of questions from reporters.   
  Much of Trump's tirade against Biden was false or inaccurate, as was his defense of his handling of the coronavirus of which a majority of the country has disapproved. Trump again blamed China for “concealing the virus and unleashing it upon the world” and attacked the media for not discussing the “deaths being cut down.” As of today,  over 133,000 people in the United States . have died from virus and 3.41 million cases have been reported. 
  The picture painted by Anthony S. Fauci , one of the president's top health advisers, shortly before Trump's newser was far more ominous.  
  Trump also waded back into racial justice issues on Tuesday in what has remained a constant: his preoccupation with white victimhood, our colleague Philip Bump  writes.  In   an interview  with CBS News’s Catherine Herridge, Trump became upset when asked why black people die at the hands of police.  
  SESSIONS LOSES RUNOFF:  The once remarkable bond between Jeff Sessions and Trump “ came to a crashing end when the Associated Press declared that Tommy Tuberville had defeated Sessions in the runoff to be the Republican nominee in November’s Senate race against Sen. Doug Jones (D-Ala.),”  Paul Kane and Toluse Olorunnipa report .
  What we learned:  “ In one Senate race, in a state that gave rise to the nativist underpinnings of Trumpism, the president made clear the real central tenet of his ideology: loyalty,” our colleagues write. “Fealty to the president takes precedence over every other ideological standard.” 
  No regrets:  “ Mr. Sessions said he had no regrets about his decision as attorney general to recuse himself from the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election — an act that infuriated Mr. Trump and turned the president against him. ‘I followed the law,’ he said, adding, ‘and I saved the president’s bacon in the process,’"  reports  the Times's Elaina Plott and Jonathan Martin. 
  He was happy about the win/loss:
  WHAT ELSE HAPPENED LAST NIGHT: 
  MJ Hegar won the Texas Senate Democratic runoff:  “ Hegar, an Air Force veteran backed by national Democrats,  won a runoff  to face Republican Sen. John Cornyn in a long-shot bid to unseat the 18-year incumbent in the traditionally conservative state that Democrats believe is shifting in their favor,”  Paul Kane and Colby Itkowitz report.
  We also know Maine Sen. Susan Collins's challenger:  “S tate House Speaker Sara Gideon won the Democratic primary and will face Sen. Susan Collins (R) in November. Millions of dollars have already poured into that race, both to the candidate coffers and from outside groups eager to oust Collins, sparked in part by her vote to confirm Brett M. Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court,” our colleagues write. 
  Former White House physician Ronny Jackson looks to be headed to Congress:  “Jackson … won his bid for the Republican nomination for a solidly red 13th Congressional District seat in the Texas Panhandle,”  the Texas Tribune's Abby Livingston reports . Former congressman Pete Sessions (R-Texas) emerged victorious in another runoff, though he won't be vying for his old seat. Sessions moved after his 2018 defeat and looks poised to return to Congress representing a more conservative district.
  We did, finally, receive a couple of New York-related calls:  “ Mondaire Jones, a progressive candidate supported by the institutional left, was declared the victor in a crowded Democratic House primary in the suburbs north of New York City, all but ensuring that he will join Congress next year as among its first openly gay African-American members,”  theTimes's  Dana Rubinstein reports .
  GOP CONGRESSMAN CHARGED WITH VOTER FRAUD:  “Rep. Steve Watkins was charged with three felony counts in Shawnee County, Kan., nearly eight months after a newspaper investigation found that he listed the location of a UPS Store as his address for voting purposes on government forms,”  Elise Viebeck and David Weigel report .
  ABOUT FACE ON STUDENT VISAS:  “The Trump administration dropped its much-criticized plan to require international college students to leave the United States unless they are enrolled in the fall term in at least one face-to-face class,”  Nick Anderson and Susan Svrluga report .
  Colleges, universities and major companies were unhappy:  “Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology had sued to block the new policy,” our colleagues write. “In a hearing in that case, held before U.S. District Judge Allison D. Burroughs, the judge announced that the schools and the federal government had reached an agreement that made the lawsuit moot." 
  BIDEN MOVES FURTHER LEFT ON CLIMATE CHANGE:  The former vice president “ unveiled a proposal to transform the nation’s energy industry, pledging to eliminate carbon pollution from power plants by 2035 and spend $2 trillion to turbocharge the clean energy economy,”  Matt Viser and Dino Grandoni report .
  The details:  “U pgrading 4 million buildings and weatherizing 2 million homes over four years, which his campaign estimates would create 1 million jobs,” our colleagues write. “Homeowners would be given cash rebates to upgrade home appliances and install more efficient windows. Car owners would receive rebates to swap their old, less efficient cars for newer ones that release fewer pollutants.” 
  WHAT ELSE YOU NEED TO KNOW: 
  Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg hospitalized:  “Ginsburg was admitted to Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore early Tuesday to receive treatment for a possible infection and will remain for a few days, according to the Supreme Court,”  Mark Berman reports . “In a statement, the court said Ginsburg had been experiencing fever and chills on Monday, so she was initially taken to Sibley Memorial Hospital in the District that night.”
  Ghislaine Maxwell denied bail:  “A federal judge in Manhattan denied bail Tuesday to Jeffrey Epstein's longtime companion Ghislaine Maxwell, who is charged with grooming his underage victims and recruiting them to be sexually abused over several years,”  Shayna Jacobs and Devlin Barrett report  from New York.
  THAT'S ONE WAY TO GOYA VIRAL:  Ivanka Trump faced a litany of complaints after she posted photos ON social media of her holding a can of Goya beans, including on accounts that mention her White House position. The company has faced  backlash and boycotts  after its CEO Robert Unanue stood beside Trump last week saying in part, “ We’re all truly blessed at the same time to have a leader like President Trump …” 
  Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) chided her efforts, saying in Spanish: "If it's Trump, it has to be corrupt." 
 