Monica Alba
  WASHINGTON — The official pro-Trump Super PAC,  America First Action , committed Thursday to additional broadcast spending of over $25 million in two key presidential  battleground states  for the fall ahead of Election Day. 
  According to a statement released by the group this afternoon, America First Action is reserving $26.6 million for pro-Trump advertising set to air from September through November’s general election on Florida and North Carolina’s airwaves. This is in addition to the $10 million it previously said it’s investing in Pennsylvania, Michigan, and Wisconsin, which will focus on “Sleepy  Joe Biden, " the now-apparent Democratic nominee after Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders suspended his campaign Wednesday. 
  In Florida,  America First Action  is reserving a total of $18.5 million with about seven million dollars and $11.3 million for the Tampa and Orlando media markets respectively. In North Carolina, the group will commit $3.8 million for ads in Charlotte’s markets and $4.3 million for Raleigh-Durham’s airwaves. 
  “America First is making the Florida and North Carolina reservations because we are confident we can secure inventory at the best possible rates in these crucial  battleground states ,” PAC President Brian Walsh explained in the statement. He added that more decisions on spending will be made next month. 
  The previous investments in Pennsylvania, Michigan, and Wisconsin unveiled last week include pro-Trump digital, cable, broadcast, and mail advertising beginning this month and continuing until late May. Two million dollars will be spent in Michigan’s Traverse City, Flint, and Grand Rapids areas while nearly three million will be spent in parts of Wisconsin including Green Bay’s media markets. In Pennsylvania, $5.5 million will be dedicated to ads in Pittsburgh and Harrisburg, among other markets. 
  The group's latest broadcast buy comes as President Trump's campaign focuses on  digital advertising  at the moment. America First Action emphasized that its recent spending commitment is just part of its first wave of independent expenditures in the 2020 cycle.
 