As the  coronavirus  pandemic has unfolded, and as President Trump’s rally-round-the-flag bump made a quick cameo appearance and then  skedaddled , the president’s defenders have made three different arguments about how to assess his pandemic performance. None of them are terribly plausible, but that might not matter, either.
  The first and loudest has been to note that the president acted boldly in imposing a travel ban on China (even though  it wasn’t a real travel ban ) and that shows he has done a great job. White House spokesman Judd Deere  told the New York Times , “While the media and Democrats refused to seriously acknowledge this virus in January and February, President Trump took bold action to protect Americans and unleash the full power of the federal government to curb the spread of the virus.” The problem with this argument is that the  rest of that Times story  shows Trump did almost nothing in January and February. When asked Monday what he did in February to respond to a possible pandemic, Trump responded with.... this:
  As  Anthony S. Fauci acknowledged  over the weekend, had Trump taken quicker action, more lives would have been saved.
  The second argument, mostly from  Trump himself , has been to say that no one could see this coming. The unspoken implication here is that no other president could have done a better job. The problem with this argument is that there are far too many instances in which the system was blinking red.  Just Security’s Ryan Goodman and Danielle Schulkin  recently developed a definitive timeline of warnings proffered to the Trump administration about what could happen and concluded: “Like previous administrations, the Trump administration knew for years that a pandemic of this gravity was possible and imminently plausible.”
  The third argument is that the only job of the federal government is to provide backup to the states. Trump has said that the federal government’s job has been to be “ sort of a backup to the states ” in the response. He has also suggested that reopening the country will be up to governors, as well. As my Post colleague JM Rieger  notes , “Trump has blamed nearly a dozen entities for his coronavirus response, but perhaps none has been more directly affected by Trump’s buck-passing than state governments.”
  The problem with this argument is that even Trump doesn’t really believe it; it’s just a deflection strategy. Once it was suggested that  Trump has only a limited ability  to reopen the economy, the president tweeted an “Oh yeah? Do too!” response:
  Trump followed that up by saying at Monday’s news conference, “When somebody is president of the United States, the authority is total.” Which  isn’t true  but does cut against the notion that he is deferring to the states.
  Whether the lameness of Trump’s excuses matters come November is an unclear question. On the one hand, we are now experiencing tens of thousands of deaths and the worst and fastest economic contraction in a century. Some folks are likely to blame the president for this.
  On the other hand, the virus has not wiped out political polarization. A significant fraction of Americans continue to  support  the president.  Proffering counterfactuals  in which anyone other than Trump could have managed this better will not persuade because counterfactuals are impossible to prove.
  What might get Trump into trouble come November, however, is broken promises. The president has promised a lot of things ever since he said in his visit to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that anyone who wanted a test could get a test. Two recent stories have exposed the administration’s shortcomings in meeting those promises.
  The Associated Press’s Calvin Woodward  reported Saturday that “For several months, President Donald Trump and his officials have cast a fog of promises meant to reassure a country in the throes of the coronavirus pandemic. Trump and his team haven’t delivered on critical ones.” This includes promises to deliver masks, tests and ventilators to affected states that have  not panned out .
  On Monday,  NPR’s Tim Mak  focused specifically on the promises made during Trump’s Rose Garden address a month ago declaring a national emergency. These pledges included: partnering with Target to produce drive-through testing, coordinating with Google to produce a national website to help Americans, in-home testing. According to Mak, “NPR’s Investigations Team dug into each of the claims made from the podium that day. And rather than a sweeping national campaign of screening, drive-through sample collection and lab testing, it found a smattering of small pilot projects and aborted efforts. In some cases, no action was taken at all.”
  These are not counterfactuals that can be waved away. These are concrete promises made by the president of the United States that have not been fulfilled.
  Will this matter? It’s worth remembering that the failure of the Obamacare website was a months-long political debacle, which leads one to think it should matter. Maybe the president’s statements on the coronavirus falls into the ever-expanding bucket of “take him seriously but not literally,” but if you think about that notion carefully, it does not end any better for the president.
  It is possible that memories of failed spring promises will fade in the fall, particularly if the pandemic subsides and the economy opens up again. But I doubt it. The task force that Trump has assigned to tackle this question is  not exactly the administration’s A-team , and the task members have in front of them is immense.
  Vox’s Ezra Klein  reviewed the existing proposals for how to reopen the economy and concluded, “until there’s a vaccine, the United States either needs economically ruinous levels of social distancing, a digital surveillance state of shocking size and scope, or a mass testing apparatus of even more shocking size and intrusiveness.”
  My prediction is that this administration will be incapable of doing any of these things competently. The odds of a second round of quarantines will be high. By then, the narrative of administration incompetence will be baked into the November election cake.
 