Despite spotty signs that the coronavirus pandemic is easing, the European Commission projected that Europe’s economy will shrink by 7.4 percent this year,  the deepest recession in its history .
  By comparison, the 27-nation bloc’s economy shrank by 4.5 percent in 2009, during the global financial crisis. And just three months ago, its economy was predicted to grow by 1.2 percent this year.
  A prolonged European recession, a second wave of the virus or an anemic economic recovery would spell added misery for many Europeans, and would hurt companies, banks and people all over the world.
  The details:  The economies of Italy and Spain, two of the countries hardest hit by the coronavirus, will most likely contract by over 9 percent this year, while Greece, which had started turning a corner after a decade of economic calamity, is expected to be worst hit, shrinking 9.7 percent. Poland would suffer the least, with a 4.5 percent contraction.
  The Times is providing free access to  much of our coronavirus coverage , and our  Coronavirus Briefing newsletter  — like all of our newsletters — is free. Please consider  supporting our journalism with a subscription .
  Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany said the nation’s coronavirus infection numbers were not just stable but also lower than those reported two weeks ago. Ms. Merkel said the country was now in a position to  reopen most aspects of its economy and society. 
  “We can afford a little audacity,” the chancellor said at a news conference on Wednesday.
  It was good news for Germany as well as other countries that are eager to resume normalcy. It also raised hopes that success in Germany might help blunt Europe’s downturn.
  But Ms. Merkel also warned that the freedoms could be quickly squandered by irresponsible behavior. “We will have to deal with this virus for a long time,” she said.
  Britain:  Prime Minister Boris Johnson seemed uncharacteristically defensive in his first face-off with the new Labour leader, Keir Starmer.  Britain surpassed Italy  with a total of 30,076 coronavirus deaths to Italy’s 29,684, according to official reports.
  Italy:  As four million Italians returned to work this week, with more to follow, many parents were in  a quandary over child care : Schools, nurseries, day cares and summer camps remained closed.
  Nearly one in five young children in the U.S. are going hungry. That’s according to a new survey of households by the Brookings Institution, which found that  17.4 percent of children were not eating enough . The level is three times as high as in 2008, during the Great Recession.
  Disruptions in school meal programs during the pandemic may be part of the problem, the lead researcher said, with some families unable to reach distribution sites and older siblings at home competing for limited food.
  As hunger rises, Democrats in Washington are seeking to raise food stamp benefits for the duration of the economic crisis, but Republicans have balked at a long-term expansion of the program.
  April’s labor report,  due Friday, is expected to show that  U.S. payrolls fell by 22 million , according to economists surveyed by MarketWatch. The worst monthly loss on record was nearly two million jobs in September 1945.
  President Trump  said the  White House coronavirus task force  would “continue on indefinitely,” reversing his earlier comments.
  The border dividing the Netherlands and Belgium cuts straight through the entrance of Sylvia Reijbroek’s studio and art gallery. She closed down her business, following Belgian law.
  But it has been frustrating, she said, seeing customers walking in and out of the health and beauty care shop next door — in the Netherlands.
  In the border-straddling town of Baarle-Hertog-Nassau,  the rules can differ from street to street, door to door and even within buildings .
  Israel:  The Supreme Court unanimously  rejected petitions seeking to disqualify Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu  from leading a new government because he faces trial on corruption charges. The court also declined to block the unusual power-sharing arrangement that Mr. Netanyahu struck with Benny Gantz, his frequent challenger.
  Turkey:  President  Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s critics are circling  as the nation’s economy worsens with the coronavirus outbreak: Unemployment and inflation are higher, tourism has collapsed and the lira is at a new low. Mr. Erdogan’s opponents are hoping the pandemic persuades him to make structural reforms and to reverse his grip on fiscal policy.
  Iraq:  The  Parliament chose Mustafa al-Kadhimi , 53, an American-backed former intelligence chief, as the new prime minister, giving the country its first real government in more than five months. Mr. al-Kadhimi has strong ties to the United States and a reputation for pragmatism.
  Snapshot:  Above,  an intermediate-mass black hole  (in the white circle), one of the rarest and most-sought in the universe. In a recent paper, researchers described going on a cosmic chase for this black hole, which sheds light on how the universe was assembled.
  Soccer:  While leagues in Germany, Italy and Spain take halting steps toward restarting,  the return of the Premier League  is being held up by teams at the bottom of the standings. They appear set on using the league’s own bylaws in negotiations as they try to spare themselves the risks of demotion to the second tier and potential financial ruin.
  Llamas:  Antibodies from Winter, a 4-year-old brown llama in Belgium, have  neutralized coronavirus  and other infections in cell cultures in the lab. Researchers hope the antibodies can eventually be used in humans as a temporary prophylactic treatment, by injecting people who are not yet infected to protect them from the virus.
  What we’re listening to:  Home Cooking , a podcast from  Hrishikesh Hirway  and   the chef and Times contributor  Samin Nosrat . “It takes a simple premise — what should we cook during lockdown? — and spices it up with reader questions, infectious chemistry between the two sparring hosts and more than a few bad puns,” says Adam Pasick, on the Briefings team.
  Cook:  Have   congee  for breakfast, dressed with soy sauce, scallions, ginger and diced thousand-year-old egg. Or for dinner, bulked up with meat, seafood or vegetables.
  Watch:  What are TV writers binge-watching?  Dating shows from Japan and the United States  are part of the mix. And marquee names such as  Patti LuPone and Bryan Cranston  are performing one-night-only play readings for charity.
  Do:   Meghan Markle’s wedding dress designer  shows you how to make a cape. See what surprising task has attracted  16.5 million views on TikTok . And here’s how bringing a bit of  nature inside can change your outlook  on life.
  At Home has our full collection of ideas  on what to read, cook, watch and do while staying safe at home. 
  Passenger traffic on U.S. airlines is down 95 percent compared with last year, and hotel occupancy rates have fallen off a cliff. Yet people are still making plans to travel once the pandemic ebbs and restrictions are lifted.
  Our reporters  looked at the future of travel,  from getting on the plane to joining a tour group, and answered some key questions. Here are the highlights:
  Can airlines keep people apart and make a profit? 
  Airlines are keeping middle seats open to conform to social distancing on airplanes, and many are requiring that passengers wear face masks. They are also doing more cleaning, including filling planes with a germ-killing fog before crews wipe down surfaces. So far, only one airline, Emirates, which is based in Dubai, has offered virus tests to a limited number of passengers. Air Canada plans to begin taking temperature readings at check-in this month.
  Where will travelers go first? 
  Expect a boom in road trips. R.V. companies may reap the rewards from that. International travel will take much longer to bounce back. Getting permission to visit a country will probably be more tedious, requiring more documentation and more rigorous health checks. A lack of clarity over who is in charge, and where, will dissuade many would-be travelers, especially at the beginning of the recovery.
  Will hospitality still have a personal touch? 
  Hotel lobbies that once were decorated for warmth will switch to a cold-but-gleaming scene, with staff members frequently circulating with disinfectant. Expect more touchless check-in using apps. Major hotel companies are experimenting with electrostatic spraying to disinfect interiors, and ultraviolet light to sanitize room keys.
  Hospitality will be more faceless and more socially distant. Marriott plans to offer contact-free room service through its cellphone app. Hilton rooms will have a seal on the doors, indicating they haven’t been entered since they were last cleaned.
 