(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s  the sign-up .)  
  Good evening. Here’s the latest. 
  1. Governors will coordinate on plans to reopen , defying the president.
  Seven states on the East Coast and three on the West Coast are forming regional working groups  to decide when it will be safe to begin easing coronavirus-related restrictions  to reopen their economies.
  The announcement came just hours after President Trump  wrote on Twitter  that such a decision lies with the president, not the governors.
  Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, pictured above at a March news conference, said on Monday that he believed the worst phase of the outbreak might have passed in New York State, but only “if we continue to be smart.” The death toll in the state, which is at the center of the U.S. outbreak, has exceeded 10,000.
  The Times is providing free access to  much of our coronavirus coverage , and our  Coronavirus Briefing newsletter  — like all of our newsletters — is free. Please consider  supporting our journalism with a subscription .
  2. But restarting the economy won’t be fast or easy,  business owners and  economists warned .
  The president has predicted that lifting business restrictions will rocket the economy out of a deep recession. And his trade adviser said that a prolonged shutdown could pose  a more dire long-term health threat  than the virus itself.
  Data suggest that economic activity is likely to remain subdued for some time, partially because both workers and consumers, still scared of contracting the coronavirus, will be unlikely to return to airports, restaurants and sporting venues en masse any time soon.
  Uncertainty about the virus has slowed economic activity even in places without state or local coronavirus lockdowns.
  3. Europe, too, takes cautious steps toward reopening. 
  A handful of businesses  will reopen on Tuesday in Italy , the center of the pandemic in Europe, but the country’s broader lockdown will remain in effect at least until May 3. (Above, a deserted Milan street on Monday.) Spain has also started to relax its restrictions with a small number of workers, including those in construction, heading back to work this week.
  France extended its lockdown to May 11, and Britain is also expected to keep restrictions in place. The number of known infections and fatalities is rising faster in Britain than anywhere else in Europe.
  In Russia,  President Vladimir Putin warned  that the number of severely ill patients was rising and that medical workers faced shortages of protective equipment.
  4. Bernie Sanders endorsed former Vice President Joe Biden  as the Democratic nominee for president.
  “We need you in the White House,”  Mr. Sanders, a Vermont senator, told Mr. Biden via a live stream . “And I will do all that I can to make that happen.” Mr. Biden was also declared the winner of the  Wisconsin primary  held last week.
  Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a New York congresswoman who is popular among young Democrats, said  she also intended to support Mr. Biden  but stressed that his overtures to progressives must go further.
  The president’s re-election campaign,  meanwhile, raised $212 million in the first quarter, maintaining his cash advantage over Mr. Biden.
  5. Tornadoes and severe thunderstorms  killed  more than two dozen people  in the South.
  Homes were destroyed and thousands of people were left without power across at least six states, including Louisiana, above. At least 11 people died in Mississippi alone.
  Harsh wind and rain from the storm front also lashed the Northeast, forcing New York, New Jersey and Connecticut to  close drive-through coronavirus testing sites .
  6. The Russian president’s war  against American science.
  An investigation by The New York Times found that Vladimir Putin’s administration  has been spreading health misinformation in the West  for more than a decade.
  Russian agents have repeatedly planted and spread the idea that viral epidemics — including flu outbreaks, Ebola and now the coronavirus — were created by American scientists. The Russians have also sought to undermine faith in the safety of vaccines.
  “It’s all about seeding lack of trust in government institutions,” said Peter Pomerantsev, the author of a 2014 book on Kremlin disinformation.
  7. The Supreme Court  will for the first time allow lawyers to  deliver arguments by phone  — and you can listen in.
  Other U.S. courts have been hearing oral arguments over video because of the pandemic, but the Supreme Court has yet to take the plunge. Among the cases the justices will hear, three are related to subpoenas seeking President Trump’s financial records.
  8. Fifty years ago, an explosion in space  almost killed the crew of Apollo 13.
  We recount what it was like through  the photos and conversations of the astronauts  as they struggled through their crisis.
  Since then, science and technology have come a long way, so  the next trip to the moon , scheduled for 2024, should be safer — but not safe. (The new lunar program, by the way, is called Artemis, after the sister of Apollo in Greek mythology.)
  9. “Expiration dates are not expiration dates.” 
  As you work your way to the back of the pantry, you might want to think twice before throwing out that white flour with the 2019 best-by date, writes our food columnist J. Kenji López-Alt.
  Same for the fridge: You’ll probably run out of hoarded toilet paper before your eggs go bad. Here’s his guide to  how long your foods will last  and still taste good.
  10. And finally, Dear Diary … 
  Jotting down your feelings  during the pandemic may help you make sense of them. And, who knows, maybe your coronavirus diary will give future generations a valuable window into this period.
  We have advice from experts on how to start that journal.
  “It’s incredibly useful both for us personally and on a historical level to keep a daily record of what goes on around us during difficult times,” said Ruth Franklin, an award-winning author.
  Have a thoughtful evening.
  Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern. 
  And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing.  Sign up here  to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European, African or American morning. 
  Want to catch up on past briefings?  You can browse them here . 
  What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at  briefing@nytimes.com . 
 