WASHINGTON – Congressman  Matt Gaetz , R-FL., wore a gas mask on the House floor while the chamber voted on a  coronavirus funding bill  Wednesday. 
  It wasn't clear whether Gaetz was wearing the gas mask to troll those panicking over the outbreak, as multiple health organizations  have repeatedly stated  not to wear face masks.  
  However, Gaetz, one of President Donald Trump's staunchest supporters on Capitol Hill,  reportedly told journalists  that he believes "members of congress are human petri dishes"
  His office reiterated this to USA TODAY, saying that members "are always in airports, taking selfies with other people’s phones…if there’s anybody that’s going to get coronavirus it’s going to be the United States Congress.
  "House rules do not explicitly allow medical headgear even at this time of heightened concern. This is a rule that should be revisited," he continued. 
  Sharing a picture of the a gas mask covering his entire face, Gaetz tweeted, “Reviewing the coronavirus supplemental appropriation and preparing to go vote.”
  Coronavirus live updates:  US death toll hits 11, including first in California; LA declares state of emergency 
  More than 130 cases have been confirmed across the nation and the U.S. death toll hit 11 Wednesday. More than 95,000 people have become sick worldwide, with more than 3,000 dying. 
  So far, there have been no confirmed cases in Washington, D.C.
  Coronavirus live updates:  US death toll hits 11, including first in California; LA declares state of emergency 
  Infectious-disease experts say masks can offer only slight protection against airborne illness like the coronavirus. Because of this, The Center for Disease Control  has stated  that they do not "recommend that people who are well wear a facemask themselves from respiratory diseases, including COVID-19."
  "Facemasks should be used by people who show symptoms of COVID-19 to help prevent the spread of the disease to others" the CDC said. 
  Despite the warnings, the virus has sent citizens to mass-buy face masks, causing a severe and mounting disruption to the global supply of masks and other personal protective equipment that is putting lives at risk from the new coronavirus and other infectious diseases, the World Health Organization said.
  Despite repeated cautions from health organizations that face masks aren't necessary, and just put sick people at risk, medical masks sales have spiked 319%. 
  How to prepare for coronavirus:  The shopping list for your own home quarantine kit 
  Congressman Jim Hines, D-CT., said that "You won’t believe the shoes Matt Gaetz is wearing today" with a picture of Gaetz wearing the gas mask. 
  Vice President Mike Pence reiterated today during a press conference about the coronavirus that there is "no need for Americans to buy masks."
  The House of Representatives voted 415-2 to pass the $8.3 billion emergency coronavirus response bill. Approval is expected from the Senate and Trump.
  The package approved by the Democrat-controlled House includes more than $3 billion for research and the development of vaccines and $2.2 billion that will help in prevention, preparedness and response. It also allocates $1 billion for state and local response, about half of which would go to specific cities. Each state would receive no less than $4 million.
  The resolution passed by the House allocates more than triple the $2.5 billion Trump originally asked for last month. 
  More: Coronavirus concerns lead to hoarding, panic buying to stock 'panic pantries,' Nielsen says 
  Gaetz voted for the bill, but said he "didn’t feel good about it. $8Billion+ in spending without offsets. The next generation will have to pay for their own pandemics....and ours too...with interest." 
  The president has  faced criticism  for his initial response to the outbreak when he appeared to contradict health officials in his own administration about the scope of the virus. At a rally last week, Trump described opponents' criticism of his administration's response a  "hoax"  while  members of his administration claimed  the panic surrounding the virus was created by Democrats and the media to "bring down the president." 
  Contributing: Christal Hayes, Mike Snider, John Bacon 
 