Mark Murray  and Carrie Dann
  WASHINGTON — Amid the coronavirus pandemic and widespread protests following the death of George Floyd, primary contests will take place Tuesday in eight states, as well as the District of Columbia.
  The race that has generated the most buzz is in Iowa’s 4th Congressional district where controversial  GOP Rep. Steve King  is getting a primary challenge from state Sen. Randy Feenstra. With all of the news and discussion about race in America, the verdict of Iowa Republicans will be significant. But there are several other notable down-ballot primaries occurring outside of the Hawkeye State’s fourth House district.
  Here are the contests on the NBC News political unit’s radar: 
  Iowa Senate:  Democrats will pick their Senate nominee Tuesday to face GOP Sen. Joni Ernst in the fall. The favorite is businesswoman  Theresa Greenfield , and national Democrats feel confident that she’ll get the 35 percent-plus needed to avoid a party convention to decide the nomination.
  Montana Governor:  In Montana’s race to replace term-limited  Gov. Steve Bullock  (who’s running for Senate), Republican Congressman Greg Gianforte — who  assaulted  political reporter Ben Jacobs in 2017 — is competing in the GOP gubernatorial primary against state Attorney General Tim Fox and state Sen. Al Olszewski. The Democrats running for governor are Lt. Gov. Mike Cooney and businesswoman Whitney Williams.
  New Mexico’s 2nd District:   Republicans Yvette Herrell and Claire Chase  are competing in a GOP primary for the right to take on Democratic Rep. Xochitl Torres Small — who flipped the seat in 2018 — in the fall. A Democratic group has been  airing TV ads  in the race in an apparent attempt to put a thumb on the scale for Herrell and against Chase.
  New Mexico’s 3rd District:  Former CIA officer Valerie Plame is running in a crowded Democratic primary to replace retiring Rep. Ben Ray Lujan (who’s running for the Senate). EMILY’s List has endorsed Teresa Leger Fernandez.  
  —Ben Kamisar and Liz Brown-Kaiser contributed. 
 