Phil Helsel
  The city of San Antonio on Monday lost a bid to get a temporary restraining order to prevent the release of more than 100 people who have completed a 14-day quarantine until they were either confirmed negative or completed a 28-day period.
  The city was seeking to pause the planned release of people evacuated from the Diamond Princess cruise ship, which had been quarantined in Japan. They were quarantined at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland.
  In denying the temporary restraining order, U.S. District Judge Xavier Rodriguez wrote that he was doubtful that the court had jurisdiction and that the U.S. Surgeon General and Secretary of Health and Human Services are authorized to make and enforce regulations.
  "In this case, they have determined that two negative tests (twenty-four hours apart) and/or quarantine for fourteen days is sufficient to prevent transmission or spread of COVID-19,” Rodriguez wrote. “This Court has no authority to second-guess those determinations even though the Court also shares the concerns expressed by the Plaintiffs."
  But the mayor of San Antonio also issued a public health emergency declaration that says that travel through the city by anyone quarantined would not be permitted. 
  "Effectively, the order requires the more than 120 evacuees at Lackland Air Force Base to remain on base and under quarantine," the  city said in a statement . A city representative did not immediately respond to a request for more clarity Monday night.
  The lawsuit and the emergency declaration came as a woman was released under CDC protocol after two negative tests but then tested weakly positive for the coronavirus. The person, who had been evacuated from Wuhan, China, was released Saturday, returned to isolation and is being monitored, Mayor Ron Nirenberg  said at a news conference  earlier Monday.
  The CDC said in a statement Monday that the person is being retested, and they were not showing symptoms at the time of release. “CDC is making decisions on a case-by-case basis using the best available science at the time. CDC’s priority is to protect both patients and communities,” the agency said.
 