The United Kingdom   as British Prime Minister Boris Johnson tried to stem the spread of coronavirus, which has infected more than 5,000 people and killed hundreds in his country.
  More American states did the same, too. Officials in Louisiana, New Mexico, Washington and West Virginia issued stay-at-home orders. “Right now, every time you leave your house, you are putting yourself, your family and your community at risk,” New Mexico Gov. Lujan Grisham said.
  Team USA's Olympic and Paralympic Committee called for the International Olympic Committee Summer Games in Tokyo.
  
  
  
  Paul A. Eisenstein
  Cities are seeing dramatic declines in traffic, as more and more states implement lockdowns. Rush hour traffic in Los Angeles is down by as much as 87 percent.
  In the New York City region, Monday morning traffic fell by 52 percent, after tumbling as much as 86 percent last Friday, according to location tracking company TomTom.
  Even cities not yet hit hard by the pandemic are seeing larger declines. Baton Rouge traffic is down by as much as 32 percent, and Nashville by 44 percent.
  For those still on the road, less traffic has allowed a big increase in speeds, especially during rush hour, according to Inrix, another tracking service.
  Daniel Arkin
  An additional 46 people who tested positive for the coronavirus have died, bringing the total number of confirmed reported deaths in England to 303.
  "More than 300,000 cases of   have now been reported to WHO, from almost every country in the 🌍. The pandemic is accelerating. It took 67 days from the 1st reported case to reach the first 100K cases, 11 days for the second 100K & just 4 days for the third 100K"-   
  Kindness is not canceled.  Love is not canceled.  Hope is not canceled.  Your favorite furry friends are here for you. ❤️
  Carlo Angerer
  German Chancellor Angela Merkel has tested negative for the coronavirus, a spokeswoman for the government press office confirmed.
  Merkel will continue to work from home quarantine in order to protect others as she awaits further tests in the next few days, the spokeswoman added.
  Erika Edwards
  New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo announced the state will begin three studies of potential treatments for the coronavirus this week.
  One of those experimental therapies will involve taking antibodies from the plasma of patients who had been sick with COVID-19, and injecting them into patients who are currently ill.
  Researchers will also study the safety and effectiveness of combining two drugs already approved for other conditions: hydroxychloroquine, often used to treat lupus and some forms of arthritis, and the antibiotic azithromycin, more commonly called a Z-Pak.
  Cuomo also announced the state is working on blood test to determine whether a person has already had the virus and recovered. 
  "We believe thousands and thousands of people have had the virus and self-resolved. If you knew that, you would know who is now immune to the virus and who you can send back to work," the governor said during a briefing Monday.
  Adam Edelman
  Joe Biden, in the first live appearance he's made in days, told supporters Monday that while President Donald Trump is not to blame for coronavirus, he “does bear responsibility for our response.”
  In a virtual event livestreamed on his campaign website, Biden, who in recent days had held only telephone calls with reporters, called on the federal government to coordinate the acquisition and dissemination of critical medical supplies to states "so we don't have governors competing against one another" for the equipment. That call echoed one made by New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo. 
  Biden also praised several Republican governors for how they were handling their states' response to the pandemic — including Ohio's Mike DeWine, Massachusetts' Charlie Baker and Maryland's Larry Hogan — before calling on Congress to make sure the aid packages for large corporations include "an enforceable commitment that they will keep workers on the payroll."
  "No blank checks," Biden said.
  Daniella Silva
  The number of coronavirus cases in New York state has grown to more than 20,000, Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Monday.
  There were 20,875 cases statewide as of Monday morning, with 12,305 in New York City, Cuomo said during a news conference. The governor said New York was testing more people than anywhere in the U.S., having tested some 78,000 people in all, with 16,000 new tests overnight.
 