California has declared an emergency over the coronavirus outbreak, as   that has been linked to two cases of the illness in the state.
  The first death in California related to coronavirus was confirmed Wednesday, while another fatality in Washington brought that state's death toll to 10.
  Congressional leaders have agreed on   to help fight the coronavirus that is headed to the House.
  The virus is now spreading more rapidly outside China, where the epidemic started, with mainland China recording just 119 new confirmed cases while hundreds of cases were reported globally.
  South Korea alone recorded an additional 516 cases of coronavirus Wednesday, bringing the total to 5,328 confirmed cases, the largest outbreak outside of mainland China.
  Governments around the world are introducing a range of measures to stop the spread of the disease. In Italy, where there have been more than 2,000 cases, all schools and colleges are shut for 10 days.
  
  
  
  Priscilla Thompson
  Pete Buttigieg, campaigning in South Carolina, highlighted the coronavirus as an example of the type of high-level national security issue that will await the next president.
  The former mayor of South Bend, Indiana, then appeared to criticize President Trump, saying: "This virus does not care what country it is in. It's not going to be stopped by a big wall."
  Ken Dilanian
  The U.S. intelligence community has failed to anticipate some big developments, from the disintegration of the Soviet Union to the rapid rise of ISIS.
  But the spies did forecast something like  .
  For years, American intelligence agencies have been warning about the increasing risks of a global pandemic that could strain resources and damage the global economy.
  
  Daniel Arkin
  Sen. Bernie Sanders, campaigning in South Carolina ahead of the Democratic primary there, slammed President Trump for coming down to the state for a Friday evening rally amid the outbreak. Gary Grumbach, one of our campaign embeds, is with the Sanders campaign today:
  Sen.   is not thrilled   is coming down to Charleston tonight for a   Rally. “Hey Mr. Trump, why don't you worry about the coronavirus rather than disrupting the democratic primary right here in South Carolina,” he said in St. George.  
  Lucy Bayly
  The White House is not ruling out suspending trade tariffs on China in the face of the viral outbreak, National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow said Friday, noting that he and President Donald Trump have had "discussions" on the matter.
  "We do not have any precipitous actions planned right now," Kudlow told reporters at a press briefing.
  He also reinforced the administration's position that the U.S. economy is strong enough to withstand any hit from the epidemic, noting that “our threat assessment is low and the economy is fundamentally sound.”
  Kudlow also categorized the historic week on Wall Street as overreaction, and said the U.S. had withstood worse. "I don't think this stock market plunge is going to have any long-term effect," he said, though he did caution, "It depends how long this lasts and how deep it goes."
  Marianna Sotomayor
  Former Vice President Joe Biden, campaigning in Sumter, South Carolina, ahead of that state's Democratic primary Saturday, criticized President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence over reports they have "silenced" medical experts from informing the public unless they check with the White House first.
  Biden cautioned that "this isn't a time to panic," but added that the spread of the virus needs to be taken seriously.
  Daniel Arkin
  Two new cases of the virus were recorded in Iraq on Thursday, the country's health ministry said in a statement — one in Baghdad, the other in Kirkuk. 
  The total of Iraqis infected with the virus is now six, according to the health ministry.
  🚨 "Our epidemiologists have been monitoring these developments continuously, and we have now increased our assessment of the risk of spread and the risk of impact of   to very high at a global level"-   
  Paul A. Eisenstein
  In an unprecedented move, organizers have canceled the Geneva International Motor Show, one of the global auto industry’s largest public events, due to concerns about the spreading coronavirus.
  The 90th running of the show, which was to have begun March 3 with a two-day media preview and continued through March 15, was scheduled to see dozens of new cars, trucks and crossovers introduced by manufacturers as diverse as Audi, Hyundai, Ferrari and Aston Martin.
  The decision to cancel the event came as the number of cases of the disease soared, with Switzerland now reporting 15 cases.
  The auto industry as a whole has been hard hit by the coronavirus epidemic.   for the details.
 