Six states will head to the polls Tuesday as former Vice President Joe Biden and Sen. Bernie Sanders  continue to battle for the Democratic nomination . Biden currently holds the lead in national pledged delegates with 664, while Sanders trails slightly with 573 delegates. Up for grabs Tuesday: a combined 352 delegates from Idaho, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, North Dakota, and Washington. After a Super Tuesday comeback, Biden will be looking to extend his lead, while Sanders will be looking to close the small gap and re-take the delegate lead.
  Prefer to listen? Check out the 5 things podcast below and  subscribe for free  on Apple Podcasts:  
  President Donald Trump's administration will meet Tuesday with House and Senate leaders to discuss an economic stimulus package  that would provide financial relief for workers and businesses hurt by coronavirus . "The main thing here is we are taking care of the American public," Trump said at a White House news conference Monday. Trump’s decision to push for a stimulus package marked a reversal for the White House, which has insisted that the fundamentals of the economy are solid and that the coronavirus would cause only a short-term blip in growth. U.S. stocks endured their  worst drop since 2008  on Monday as a free fall in oil prices and mounting coronavirus cases frightened investors and pushed major indexes to the edge of a bear market. 
  Italy  begins its country-wide lockdown Tuesday  in an attempt to combat coronavirus. The nation has registered the largest number of cases outside of China. Two days after imposing the strict measures on a quarter of the country - in the hard-hit north - Italian Premier Giuseppe Conte urged all 60 million Italians to stay home. The only travel allowed will be for proven work reasons, health conditions or other cases of necessity. The nationwide restrictions will be in effect until April 3 and include extending the closures of schools and universities and closing pubs, eateries and cafes at dusk. 
  Tuesday marks the  one-year anniversary  of the deadly crash of the Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 Max jet, an incident that has had far-reaching consequences for the aeronautics industry. All 157 people aboard were killed when the Nairobi, Kenya-bound aircraft came down six minutes after takeoff from the Ethiopian capital of Addis Ababa. The incident occurred five months after another brand-new 737 Max crashed off the coast of Indonesia, killing 189 people. The Ethiopian crash brought about the grounding of all Boeing 737 Max 8 and 9 planes, which remain out of service. Ethiopian investigators mostly blame Boeing for the crash,  saying in an interim report Monday  that there were design failures and inadequate training for pilots. A full analysis is expected later this year with a final report.
  Due to coronavirus (COVID-19) concerns, Major League Baseball – along with the National Basketball Association, National Hockey League and Major League Soccer –  will close locker rooms and clubhouses to the news media  and any non-essential personnel beginning Tuesday, according to a joint statement by the four leagues. In addition, the leagues will consider further options to protect themselves from the potential pandemic while preparing for and playing out their respective seasons. For now, neither the NBA nor MLB plan to postpone games nor play them without fans. The adjustments come as COVID-19 virus cases and fatalities continue increasing worldwide. Sports leagues are responding in kind: Italy's Serie A – the country's premier soccer league – announced its season has been suspended until at least early April in the wake of a countrywide lockdown.
  Contributing: Associated Press 
 