Montgomery:  The governor is giving state agencies permission to allow their employees to work from home. Employees should plan to return to regular work schedules April  6, Gov. Kay Ivey said on Twitter on Sunday. Alabama now has 22 confirmed cases of coronavirus as of Sunday night, according to the state Department of Public Health. For most people, the new coronavirus causes only mild or moderate symptoms, such as fever and cough. For some, especially older adults and people with existing health problems, it can cause more severe illness, including pneumonia. Alabama reported its first confirmed case of the virus Friday, although public health officials cautioned that the virus was already circulating in the state. Twelve of the confirmed cases are in Jefferson County. 
  Anchorage:  The Ben Boeke Ice Arena is the preferred location for an additional shelter to house many of the city’s homeless as the COVID-19 virus spreads, officials said. Mayor Ethan Berkowitz’s chief of staff said Saturday that emergency planners identified the indoor arena as the best option to house community members who are homeless, The Anchorage Daily News reports. Anchorage is home to an estimated 1,100 people who live on the streets or in greenbelts, parks and shelters. They often have weakened immune systems and are considered vulnerable to COVID-19, officials said. Anchorage officials considered using apartments, vacant office buildings, recreation centers, hotels, modular trailers and other sites before choosing the arena as the best option. The city-owned arena will allow up to 200 people to sleep at least 3 feet apart as recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for homeless shelters.
  Phoenix:  The governor and school superintendent on Sunday ordered a statewide closure of schools through at least March  27 as authorities rush to contain the outbreak of the new coronavirus. Gov. Doug Ducey and Superintendent of Public Instruction Kathy Hoffman said they’ll work with health officials to decide whether schools should remain closed longer. Ducey and Hoffman faced growing pressure from parents, and on Sunday the state’s teachers union called for students to stay home. Public health authorities did not recommend school closures, saying there isn’t yet widespread community transmission of the virus in Arizona, and keeping them open allows children to maintain routines and nutritional programs. Still, a growing number of districts made their own decisions to close or extend their spring breaks. 
  Little Rock:  Schools throughout the state will be closed for on-site instruction for the next two weeks due to concerns about coronavirus, officials announced Sunday. The mandatory statewide closure, which starts Tuesday, will be followed by spring break the following week, Gov. Asa Hutchinson said at a news conference. Students would return to classrooms March  30, unless circumstances dictate otherwise. Arkansas Education Secretary Johnny Key said students will be given computers or other electronic devices and materials they will need to work from home. Many schools will work to provide meals to students while they are away from their campuses. Nearly 480,000 students are enrolled in Arkansas schools. The state had reported 22 cases of COVID-19 by Monday, according to the Arkansas Department of Health. 
  Los Angeles:  Gov. Gavin Newsom on Sunday called for all bars, wineries, nightclubs and brewpubs to close and urged seniors and people with chronic health conditions to isolate themselves at home in a bid to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Restaurants may remain open but can serve only half as many as their maximum occupancies to create space between diners, Newsom said at a news conference. He said he recognizes the increasing isolation for millions of Californians is “anxiety-inducing” but said the moves are necessary to protect the state’s most vulnerable residents. California has confirmed 335 cases of the virus and six deaths. The virus usually causes only mild or moderate symptoms, such as fever and cough. But the governor is urging the state’s 5.3  million people 65 and older and people with chronic health conditions to stay at home because they can be hit with more severe illness, including pneumonia. 
  Denver:  The governor and a state lawmaker criticized a former Florida lieutenant governor who complained that his vacation was ruined when Vail closed its ski resort due to concerns about the coronavirus. Florida’s ex-Lt. Gov. Jeff Kottkamp tweeted his displeasure Saturday after industry giants Vail Resorts and Alterra Mountain Co. said they would close dozens of North America’s most well-known resorts. Colorado Gov. Jared Polis also ordered the state’s downhill resorts to close for a week to mitigate the virus’s spread. “Thank you for making this announcement as we are driving in to Vail,” Kottkamp tweeted after Vail announced its closure. “Came all the way from Florida only to have our family’s vacation destroyed.” The Denver Post reports Polis and Democratic state Sen. Kerry Donovan were quick to react. “Thank you for your deep concerns regarding the health of our residents in the face of a global pandemic, as well as your heartfelt sympathy for the difficulties faced by those who work in the ski industry and hospitality,” Polis said. Donovan, whose district includes Vail, tweeted: “We should be commending (Vail’s decision), not complaining. But, please keep thinking of yourself.”
  Hartford:  Public schools must close beginning Tuesday for at least two weeks to help fight the spread of the coronavirus, the governor said Sunday. The announcement brings Connecticut in line with many states. Several large districts, including Hartford, Stamford and New Haven, already had ordered schools to close for two weeks or longer. Gov. Ned Lamont said he would issue an executive order for schools to close beginning Tuesday through at least through March  31. The governor said an online education program is being developed, and meals will still be available for students who receive them at schools through assistance programs. At a news conference outside the governor’s residence, Lamont said it was “risky behavior” to attend church and urged people to avoid all large groups. “We see the urgency of the situation,” he said. A total of 26 people in Connecticut have tested positive for COVID-19, the disease caused by the virus. 
  Wilmington:  All civil and criminal jury trials in the state have been suspended until April  15 under an order aimed at protecting jurors, lawyer, judges and court staff from coronavirus. The order was issued Sunday by Judge Jan Jurden, president judge of Superior Court in Delaware. It says anyone who has been summoned for jury duty is excused and should not report to court. The grand jury and other court proceedings that involve smaller groups of people will continue. Status hearings in specialty courts will also be postponed. Those include veteran’s court, mental health court, drug court and reentry court. Under the order, probation violation hearings for non-incarcerated offenders will also be postponed. Probation hearings for incarcerated offenders will be heard at the discretion of the judicial officer. 
  Washington:  The White House put in place new measures Monday to protect President Donald Trump and his staff during the coronavirus outbreak, including taking the temperature of anyone who enters the complex, including visitors and members of the press corps. The steps expanded on screenings the White House began Saturday for anyone who gets close to Trump and Vice President Mike Pence, who is leading the administration’s response to the virus. Inside the James S. Brady Press Briefing Room, an orange sign taped to the back of many seats let reporters know it was to remain unoccupied during briefings to ensure social distancing. The White House Correspondents’ Association called on all members to stay home or work remotely if they could and to keep a bare level of staffing at the White House. Trump has had contact with people who later tested positive for the coronavirus, but he initially refused to be tested. The White House doctor reported Saturday that a test came back negative. Trump, 73, would be considered at risk because of his age.
  Fort Lauderdale:  Walt Disney World says it will close all its hotels in the state due to growing concern over the new coronavirus. In a tweet Monday, the company said the hotels would not close until 5  p.m. Friday to give guests time to arrange other accommodations. It also said all Disney stores nationwide will close Tuesday, including in Disney Springs in Orlando. To help contain the spread of the disease, Walt Disney World, Universal Orlando Resort, SeaWorld and Busch Gardens closed Sunday night for at least two weeks. The move was announced as cases of COVID-19 increased to more than 130 cases in the state Sunday. Three people have died from the novel coronavirus in Florida. Gov. Ron DeSantis announced Sunday that a drive-thru testing facility would soon open at a hospital in South Florida’s Broward County, the hardest-hit county from the coronavirus, as the state seeks to boost testing capacity. More than 170 National Guard personnel have deployed in Broward County, and 300 additional Guard members were soon to be activated to help with drive-thru testing. 
  Atlanta:  Lawmakers are granting Gov. Brian Kemp broad powers to combat the spread of the new coronavirus, as the governor called for restrictions on nursing homes and assisted living facilities and cases in the state continued to climb. Members of the General Assembly convened a special session Monday, as required by Kemp’s Saturday declaration of a public health emergency. Lawmakers wrangled for hours over whether they should have to vote again if Kemp wants to extend the powers past April  13 before compromising. The Georgia Public Health Department reported 121 cases at noon Monday, up from 99 on Sunday. Most remain in metro Atlanta and north Georgia, although the Albany area in southwest Georgia reported eight cases across two counties. Kemp issued a statement Monday calling for assisted living communities and nursing homes to restrict all visitors and avoid holding group activities, including communal dining, due to the “high mortality rate among the elderly and chronically ill.” Exceptions can be made in certain circumstances such as when people are dying. The legislative debate came as one state House member self-quarantined and did not attend after being exposed to someone with the virus. 
  Honolulu:  Hawaii now has seven positive cases of the new coronavirus, and Gov. David Ige announced Sunday that schools will be closed until March  30. Schools were to be on spring break this week, but it’s been extended by a week to allow school leaders to prepare social distancing plans once children return, Ige said during a news conference. “We are committed to having a safe, stable place for our children during this time,” the governor said. Ige also outlined the newest three cases of the virus. All three are travel-related, with exposure outside the state of Hawaii, he said. “We do believe that community spread of the virus has not occurred yet,” he said. Ige said the belief is that the virus has spread across the United States, and he encouraged Hawaii residents to cancel any nonessential travel. 
  Boise:  Several school districts and day care centers across the state have closed in efforts to slow the spread of the coronavirus outbreak. On Monday morning, there were five confirmed cases of COVID-19 – the illness caused by the new coronavirus – spread across the southern half of the state. Gov. Brad Little told school districts Sunday that the choice to close should be made locally, and Idaho Department of Health and Welfare Director Dave Jeppesen cautioned schools that there was little evidence to show short-term school closures help to slow coronavirus spread. But some parents and staffers at districts across the state urged school leaders to close schools. The Boise, Coeur d’Alene, Twin Falls, Nampa, Cassia, Lewiston and other districts made the decision to close. Hoping to ease the burden on health care workers, grandparent caregivers and hourly employees who can’t stay home with their children, several districts opened emergency day camps for kids who have no other place to go while schools are closed. Volunteer groups and some restaurants also began organizing to ensure that children who rely on school meals are fed during the school closures.
  Chicago:  Gov. J.B. Pritzker on Sunday ordered all bars and restaurants in the state to close for two weeks to help prevent the spread of the coronavirus. Pritzker ordered that the shutdown run from the close of business Monday through March  30. The action came after crowds filled restaurants and bars around the state Saturday to celebrate St. Patrick’s Day. The Illinois Department of Public Health announced Sunday there were 93 confirmed cases of coronavirus in the state. Pritzker said he tried last week to appeal to everyone’s good judgment to stay home, avoid bars and not congregate in crowds. He said it’s unfortunate many people didn’t take that seriously. “The time for persuasion and public appeals is over,” the governor said. “This is not a joke. No one is immune to this.” Pritzker said drive-thrus will remain open, and he’s working with food services and restaurants so they can keep their kitchens open. 
  Indianapolis:  The governor is ordering restaurants and bars closed to in-person customers in another step toward stemming the spread of the coronavirus. The order Monday from Gov. Eric Holcomb follows each of Indiana’s adjacent states taking the same step in recent days. The governor’s office says 273 public school districts have decided to close to students, and the state education department is working with the 16 others to determine their next steps. Indiana’s hospitals and surgery centers are being asked to cancel or postpone elective and non-urgent surgical procedures to help free up resources and personnel for possible virus illnesses. The number of confirmed COVID-19 illnesses in Indiana reached 24 on Monday in 13 counties, according to the state health department. That is five more than reported Sunday and double Friday’s number.
  Des Moines:  Dozens of school districts are following the governor’s guidance and suspending classes for four weeks to stem the spread of the new coronavirus. Among them was the Des Moines district, which had said last week that classes and activities would be canceled until March  30. It announced Sunday that the system’s closure would be extended to April  13. Dubuque schools also will be closed until then. Other school districts following Reynolds’ recommendation include those in Cedar Rapids, Le Mars, Sioux City and Storm Lake. Some other districts’ officials posted on social media that they were aware of the governor’s recommendation and would be making decisions about cancellations as soon as Monday. 
  Topeka:  Gov. Laura Kelly and the state’s top education official on Sunday urged public schools to remain closed this week, and the health department called for people who are traveling outside the U.S. or to several other states to quarantine themselves for two weeks upon their return. Education Commissioner Randy Watson announced in a tweet that he “strongly recommends” schools close to help check the spread of the virus that causes COVID-19 if they were not already set to be on spring break. Kelly had a Statehouse news conference to reinforce the message, though the state is not yet ordering schools closed. Kansas has a long tradition of letting local school districts make decisions. But public health officials can order schools closed, as Shawnee County’s health officer did, shuttering all Topeka-area schools through March  27. “We are really trying to take a Kansas approach to this but a risk-based strategic plan to address the issues as they come up and to plan for those in the future,” Kelly said. 
  Frankfort:  Gov. Andy Beshear o rdered bars and restaurant dine-in services to close  in another aggressive step to contain the new coronavirus as the state reported its first death linked to the illness. The 66-year-old Bourbon County man had other health conditions, but his death was counted as a coronavirus death, Beshear said Monday. He offered his sympathy to the man’s family. Kentucky has had 21 confirmed cases of the virus. Beshear has preached the importance of social distancing, the need to postpone community gatherings and proper hygiene to help curb spread of the virus. “We all have a duty to do everything we can that it takes to beat this virus,” he said. “This is our duty as Kentuckians. This is our patriotic duty.” On Sunday, Beshear expressed frustration with reports that people packed into some bars or nightclubs over the weekend. “We’re asking people to make major sacrifices in this state,” he said. On Monday he urged people to continue supporting restaurants by ordering takeout meals and said his family will do so for at least three meals a week.
  New Orleans:  The number of coronavirus cases in the state has now topped 100, health officials said as officials in the tourism-focused economy of New Orleans implemented limits on restaurants and bars designed to slow the spread of the virus. The Louisiana Department of Public Health says there are 114 cases, with 79 of those in Orleans Parish. Two people have died in Louisiana. On Sunday night, New Orleans instituted measures designed to reduce the virus’s spread. The new rules mandate that full-service restaurants close at 9  p.m. and that while they are open they increase the space between tables. Fast-casual or quick-service types of restaurants are not allowed to serve food inside but are allowed to have drive-thru services. Bars and nightclubs in the tourism-dependent economy will close at midnight but have to keep the number of patrons at half whatever their posted occupancy is. When people leave a restaurant or bar, they can’t loiter outside, according to the new guidelines. And tour groups must be limited to seven people. 
  Portland:  The Maine Center for Disease Control and Prevention has advised quarantine for about 100 people because of exposure to the coronavirus, the agency’s head said Monday. The number is fluctuating, and other individuals in the state have been advised to quarantine by employers, Maine CDC Director Nirav Shah said. Cases of the virus are growing in different parts of the state, with evidence of community transmission, and two people have been hospitalized, he said. The state’s first case of a child testing positive for the virus involved a student from Cape Elizabeth Middle School. The student is doing well and recovering at home, school district officials said. Shah reiterated a statement from Gov. Janet Mills for Mainers to avoid large gatherings and take precautions but also remember to help their neighbors. “While many aspects of our lives here in Maine will be postponed or suspended, we must not suspend our caring of one another,” Shah said.
  Annapolis:  Gov. Larry Hogan on Monday ordered the closure of bars, restaurants, gyms and movie theaters across the state in response to coronavirus. Drive-thru, carryout and delivery service will still be allowed. “We have never faced anything like this before,” Hogan said during a news conference. “This is going to be much harder, take much longer and be much worse than almost anyone is currently understanding.” Hogan also announced a prohibition on social, community, recreational or religious gatherings of more than 50 people in close proximity. He said the state is planning to make up to 6,000 more hospital beds available, in part by reopening closed hospitals. Hogan also ordered a prohibition on electric, gas, water, sewage, phone, cable and internet service provider companies from shutting off any residential customer’s services or charging any late fees during the current state of emergency in Maryland.
  Boston:  Schools will close for at least three weeks, and all gatherings of more than 25 people will be banned in the latest attempt to arrest the spread of the coronavirus, Gov. Charlie Baker announced Sunday. The governor also ordered all dine-in restaurants and bars to close for three weeks. Take-away and delivery services won’t be affected by the rules, nor will grocery stores or pharmacies. “I realize these measures are unprecedented,” Baker, a Republican, said at a news conference announcing the directives. “But we’re asking our residents to take a deep breath and understand the rationale behind this guidance.” The restrictions on gatherings will apply to any event that brings 25 or more people together in the same space and will apply to churches, gyms, theaters and workplaces. The order goes into effect Tuesday and will run through April  5. On Sunday, the state reported it has 164 cases of COVID-19, the illness caused by the virus. 
  Lansing:  Gov. Gretchen Whitmer issued a sweeping order Monday banning dine-in customers at restaurants and closing all bars, movie theaters, gyms and other sports facilities to curb the spread of the coronavirus. The measure was set to last through March. Businesses can still offer food and beverages for delivery and pickup, including with a drive-through service. She also ordered that unemployment benefits be extended to 26 weeks, from 20, and that eligibility be temporarily expanded to cover workers with an “unanticipated family care responsibility” due to school closures or caring for family members who become ill. Others who can qualify for jobless benefits include those who are sick, quarantined or immunocompromised and do not have paid sick leave, as well as first responders who become ill or quarantined due to exposure to COVID-19, the disease caused by the virus. The state reported 20 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, bringing the Michigan total to 53. Among the new cases is the state’s first child to test positive, a 5-year-old boy from Oakland County.
  St. Paul:  The State Public Defender’s Office is pushing for the release of jail inmates across Minnesota to protect them from the spread of the coronavirus. Chief Public Defender Bill Ward sent an email to staffers Sunday asking them to get on board and demand that their clients be released. “It is up to us to push this on behalf of our clients – no one is going to do it but us,” Ward wrote. He called the jails a “petri dish” of infection. The Star Tribune says the plea comes just days after an announcement that the courts will be postponing some cases, but not those that are high-priority. The Minnesota federal court system will implement broader measures, temporarily suspending all criminal and civil trials starting March  23 through April  27. Washington County Attorney Pete Orput said he’ll entertain the release of low-level offenders and plans to evaluate the jail roster this week. 
  Jackson:  Nearly 300 Mississippians have been tested for the novel coronavirus  as the number of people infected in the state increased to 12 , the state Health Department announced Monday. No deaths had been reported. According to the department, 289 people have been tested by the MSDH Public Health Laboratory. Affected counties to date are Copiah, Forrest, Hancock, Hinds, Leflore, Monroe and Pearl River. The lone case in Hancock County was previously reported as being in Pearl River County, the department said. As of Sunday, there were 10 reported cases in the state, including students from the University of Mississippi Medical Center and Jackson State University. Many of those who tested positive for the virus have recently traveled, including a UMMC student who had returned from spring break, according to health officials.
  Kansas City:  Gov. Mike Parson has announced a sixth case of the coronavirus in the state, this one in Green County in southwest Missouri. Parson said in a Monday morning tweet that 170 people have been tested for COVID-19 so far in the state, with 164 testing negative. The day before, he strongly encouraged the cancellation or suspension of public events with more than 50 people following federal health officials’ recommendations that those events be halted in an attempt to slow the spread of the coronavirus. Kansas City and St. Louis area officials said they were banning events with more than 50 people for eight weeks following the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s recommendation Sunday evening. St. Louis area leaders also recommended that all K-12 schools close at least by Wednesday until further notice.
  Helena:  Disruptions of day-to-day life are adding up as part of ongoing efforts to slow the spread of the new coronavirus just days after the first cases were announced in the state. Gov. Steve Bullock ordered schools closed for at least two weeks and suspended most visitation to nursing homes; the state prison system has suspended visitation; ski hills are closing; and exposed groups are going into self-quarantine. Montana has six presumptive positive tests for COVID-19 out of 204 tests given, according to the state health department’s website Monday morning. Testing is now going on seven days a week. Montana reported its first case Friday. Bullock on Sunday ordered public schools closed until at least March  27, affecting about 150,000 students, the Office of Public Instruction said. Private schools announced closures, as well. 
  Lincoln:  The Legislature suspended its session Monday to try to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Legislators were off Monday but had been set to reconvene Tuesday. The session has now been postponed, and it’s not clear when lawmakers will return to the Capitol. Speaker of the Legislature Jim Scheer said legislative leaders made the decision to protect lawmakers as well as the public. Sen. Adam Morfeld, of Lincoln, said roughly two-thirds of the Legislature’s 49 senators are old enough to be in the high-risk category if they were to catch the virus. The decision came as the number of coronavirus cases in Nebraska climbed to 18. On Sunday, Susie Buffett, daughter of billionaire investor Warren Buffett, told the Omaha World-Herald she was exposed to the virus and had isolated herself at her Omaha home for two weeks.
  Las Vegas:  The state is reporting its first death from the new coronavirus. Health officials in the Las Vegas area said Monday morning that a man in his 60s who had been hospitalized with COVID-19 had died. The Southern Nevada Health District said the man had underlying health conditions. Nevada has reported at least 45 cases of the virus so far. Gov. Steve Sisolak said at a news conference over the weekend that there are not enough kits in the state to test for the virus and that he is seeking more tests from the federal government.
  Concord:  Schools are closed, courts are significantly scaling back, and elective medical procedures are being delayed in an effort to contain the coronavirus. As of Monday, more than 10 people in the state have tested positive for COVID-19, the disease caused by the new coronavirus. Health officials have said they believe all of the state’s cases were infected via international travel, domestic travel or close contact with another patient. None have been hospitalized. Republican Gov. Chris Sununu issued an order Sunday closing K-12 public schools until April  3. The order gives districts until March  23 to begin offering remote instruction. Sununu said he will issue directives to make sure parents who need to miss work to care for children would be able to access state unemployment benefits. He also said the state would expand access to child care. 
  Trenton:  All of New Jersey’s public and private schools, along with colleges and universities, will close indefinitely starting Wednesday in response to the coronavirus pandemic, Democratic Gov. Phil Murphy said, while bars, restaurants and casinos were to shutter at 8  p.m. Monday. Bars and restaurants can remain open for takeout or delivery only. The governor announced the closings on a call with fellow Democratic Govs. Andrew Cuomo, of New York, and Ned Lamont, of Connecticut, who are calling for similar closures in their states as part of a regional response. Murphy told residents to take the threat from the virus seriously – calling out people over the weekend who frequented bars and pubs to celebrate St. Patrick’s Day. He also added that people should not panic. “This is not a time for selfishness. This is a time to think of those around you,” he said. “There are some people out there who think this is fake news. This is not fake news. This is real.” Murphy also said he’s mobilizing the National Guard, though he characterized the step as preparatory at this point. He said guardsmen and women could be used to help pass out meals, for example. Murphy also reported there were 80 new positive cases since Sunday, bringing the state’s total to 178. The new positive cases ranged from 5 years old to 93 years old, according to Health Commissioner Judy Persichilli. The regional closures of bars, restaurants, movie theaters and casinos are in response to the federal government’s failure to issue uniform guidelines to the states, the governors said. Murphy also said he’s discouraging all nonessential travel throughout the state. 
  Albuquerque:  The New Mexico Corrections Department isn’t allowing any contact visits at the state’s prisons, and county jails across the state have suspended visitations, as top officials renewed their call Monday to limit all public gatherings in hopes of minimizing the spread of the new coronavirus. “We want New Mexicans to stay home to the greatest extent possible,” Health Secretary Kathy Kunkel said. “That kind of social distancing is our best strategy for reducing the risks to New Mexico.” The state on Monday hardened social-distancing recommendations to restrict restaurant service to 50% of seating capacity with a 6-foot buffer between tables and no service at bar fronts, while state museums and buildings were closed to the public as state workers make the transition to working remotely from home. State health officials announced Sunday that four more people tested positive for the virus, pushing New Mexico’s total to 17.
  Albany:  The state entered a new phase in the coronavirus pandemic Monday. New York City closed its public schools, and officials said schools statewide would close by Wednesday. New York joined with Connecticut and New Jersey to close bars, restaurants and movie theaters along with setting limits on social gatherings. The number of confirmed cases in New York climbed toward 1,000. Gov. Andrew Cuomo said he is “strongly encouraging” nonessential businesses to close after 8  p.m. “Our primary goal right now is to slow the spread of this virus so that the wave of new infections doesn’t crash our health care system, and everyone agrees social distancing is the best way to do that,” he said. Cuomo reported a seventh person has died in the state after contracting the coronavirus. The state had 950 confirmed cases Monday morning, with about half of them in New York City. The metropolitan region continues to post the lion’s share of confirmed cases. Cuomo said nearly 160 people were hospitalized. 
  Asheville:  The state  now has 33 known coronavirus cases , an increase of 10 in one day, after the Department of Health & Human Services updated its online coronavirus “case count” tracker Sunday. Later in the day, Wilson County announced a female resident has received a presumptive positive test. She had returned from out-of-state travel and is now hospitalized. Watauga County is among the counties recording its first case. Neither Buncombe County nor any county west of Watauga has a reported case of COVID-19, according to state information. Out of COVID-19 concerns, however, Buncombe County jail’s lobby is now closed to the public. Also Sunday, Haywood County declared a state of emergency. Thirteen counties are reporting presumptive positive or confirmed COVID-19 test results. Wake County is reporting by far the most, with 14 cases. Mecklenberg has four; Hartnett, Johnston and Forsyth have two each. Other counties have only one case.
  Bismarck:  Gov. Doug Burgum issued an executive order closing schools across the state for one week beginning Monday. All public and private K-12 schools will be closed March  16-20, according to a statement issued late Sunday that said the decision was based on guidance from public school superintendents, medical experts and the state Department of Health. “Closing K-12 education is a proactive and aggressive approach to minimize community spread,” the statement quoted State Health Officer Mylynn Tufte as saying. “What we’ve learned this weekend from our medical advisors is that we need more time to ‘flatten the curve’ to slow the spread of COVID-19 so we don’t overwhelm the health care system.” The executive order is a course reversal for the Republican governor, who declared a state of emergency to combat the coronavirus pandemic Friday but said then that schools would remain open. 
  Columbus:  A mandatory three-week closure of schools to stem the spread of the coronavirus began Monday, bars and restaurants were closed indefinitely, and the state continued preparations for Election Day on Tuesday. As of Sunday, there were more than 35 confirmed cases of the coronavirus in Ohio and 350 people under investigation. Dr. Amy Acton, the state health director, stressed that such cases were only “the tip of the iceberg.” There have been no reported deaths in the state. Many children accompanied by parents, grandparents and guardians started the day Monday picking up federally funded breakfast to-go bags at designated schools. Gov. Mike DeWine said over the weekend that school closures could continue through the end of the school year. Meanwhile, Republican Ohio Secretary of State Frank LaRose has ordered all county boards of elections to offer a curbside voting option Tuesday to any voter “concerned about coming inside a polling location.” His latest order also requires the boards to accept absentee ballots from “unforseeably confined or hospitalized voters” until 3  p.m. on Election Day. 
  Oklahoma City:  More than two dozen Oklahomans who were on a cruise that had a coronavirus outbreak have returned home after being quarantined, Gov. Kevin Stitt announced Monday. Stitt said all 26 Oklahomans who were aboard the Grand Princess cruise ship returned home and were asymptomatic. They will remain quarantined in their homes for another 14 days and be monitored by local health officials. Also on Monday, state lawmakers met behind closed doors to discuss contingency plans, including a possible suspension of legislative activity. At least 10 people in Oklahoma have tested positive for COVID-19, the disease caused by the virus, according to the state Department of Health. Positive tests have been reported in Canadian, Cleveland, Jackson, Kay, Oklahoma, Payne and Tulsa counties. The University of Oklahoma reported Sunday that a member of its “Norman campus community” had tested positive.
  Salem:  Gov. Kate Brown  will not be requiring restaurants or bars to close early or at all “at this time,”  she said Monday morning. Brown had said Sunday night that she was considering closing restaurants and bars in line with other governors who have restricted gatherings in public spaces, part of an effort to stem the spread of the novel coronavirus. Brown already has canceled gatherings of more than 250 people and closed schools. “We are watching the regions of the world shut down,” Brown said. “I am thinking about how something like this can impact Oregonians across the state.” Experts say “social distancing,” or avoiding social situations and public places, can help slow the spread of the virus. But the governor said she spoke with local elected officials Sunday and said restaurants are a lifeline for elderly and vulnerable people, especially in rural areas. Brown urged Oregonians to limit social contact and implored “young and healthy” Oregonians to be recognize that they too can transmit the disease, even if they don’t have symptoms or have mild symptoms.
  Harrisburg:  Gov. Tom Wolf has extended a shutdown order to the entire state in an effort to halt the spread of the coronavirus, he said Monday. Wolf had already called for nonessential government offices to close and nonessential business activity to end in four heavily populated southeastern Pennsylvania counties. On Monday, he extended that order to the rest of the state. “This isn’t a decision that I take lightly at all,” Wolf said. “It’s one I’m making because medical experts believe it’s the only way we can prevent our hospitals from being overwhelmed.” In Philadelphia, Mayor Jim Kenney ordered a halt to all nonessential business activity and city government operations for two weeks in the city of 1.6  million people. In issuing the order, Kenney asked that residents and businesses observe the restrictions and said he understood that it could have devastating effects on them. 
  Providence:  Officials on Monday banned large gatherings and ordered restaurants and bars to end dine-in service as the total number of cases of the new coronavirus in the state has risen to 21. Nicole Alexander-Scott, director of the state’s Department of Health, said the latest patient is a woman in her 40s who has been hospitalized but is considered stable. She said hospital officials are currently investigating how she contracted the virus. There are also about 2,300 people being self-quarantined in the state, with about 1,700 of them linked to Cranston High School West, health officials said. Rhode Islanders have been ordered not to host or attend gatherings of 25 people or more. Effective Tuesday through March  30, there will be no on-premise food consumption for restaurants, bars, coffee shops or other food establishments in the state. Gov. Gina Raimondo stressed that food service workers feeling ill shouldn’t report to work. 
  Columbia:  As the state reported its first death Monday from the coronavirus, lawmakers plan to return to the Capitol, but only long enough to pass a $45  million emergency request from state health officials. State senators planned a normal week when they left Thursday. Those plans changed after Gov. Henry McMaster canceled all schools for the next two weeks and urged that all public gatherings be limited to 100 people or less. Hours later, federal health officials suggested that number be cut to 50. Now senators plan to come back Tuesday to approve emergency funding for state health officials, with the House planning to cut its week off short Thursday to finalize the bill. On Monday, a patient who contracted COVID-19 in a Lexington County nursing home died, marking the state’s first death from the virus, the state Department of Health and Environmental Control said in a statement. Meanwhile, cruise ship passengers returned to Charleston on Monday after a four-day cruise to the Bahamas on the Carnival Sunshine. They said they had their temperatures frequently taken while on board but not as they left the ship. No one was wearing a face mask. 
  Sioux Falls:  Authorities reported one new positive test for COVID-19 on Monday, bringing the state’s total cases to 10. Officials reported that a man in his 20s in Minnehaha County tested positive for the new coronavirus. The county contains Sioux Falls, the state’s largest city. Sioux Falls health officials announced Monday that they would be moving to halt gatherings of 50 or more people in city-owned facilities. The Sioux Falls School District has canceled classes for the week. Health officials indicated that all the positive cases in South Dakota came from people with recent travel history and that currently there is no community transmission. They have tested over 500 people for the coronavirus. One man in his 60s with underlying health problems in Pennington County died last week after testing positive for COVID-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus.
  Nashville:  Gov. Bill Lee on Monday asked all schools to close by the end of the week through March  31 due to coronavirus spreading across the state. Metro Nashville Public Schools announced it would close through April  3. Tennessee’s Department of Education will work with school districts and promised to issue guidance on closing that does not disrupt “academic instruction as well as critical meal and other services for students,” officials said Monday. As of Monday, the state had 52 confirmed cases of coronavirus. Twenty-five cases were in Davidson County, 18 in Williamson County and two in Shelby County. Single cases have been found in Campbell, Hamilton, Jefferson, Knox, Rutherford, Sevier and Sullivan counties. Also Monday, Lee joined the top leaders of the GOP-dominated Statehouse to announce lawmakers would only meet to pass the state’s budget for the upcoming fiscal year and limit all other legislative business. 
  Austin:  Gov. Greg Abbott on Monday shelved the state’s requirement for high-stakes standardized testing, with hundreds of school districts having already canceled classes and the state bracing for long-term closures to combat the coronavirus. Abbott said he was also asking the federal government to waive its educational testing requirements for the school year. The decision to do away with Texas’ standardized test this year comes as the Republican governor has otherwise resisted telling schools, businesses or cities whether they should remain open, limit public gatherings or close altogether. Some local officials have sought more specific guidance, but unlike governors in other big states, Abbott has said those decisions are best made at a local level. Suspending this year’s testing requirements suggests that Texas public schools should plan for long-term closures. Abbott suggested that will remain a local decision.
  Salt Lake City:  A mountain county home to the popular ski town of Park City has closed all restaurants, resorts, bars, entertainment venues, spas and exercise facilities in hopes of preventing the spread of the coronavirus. Summit County health officials announced the measure Sunday night, a day after the area’s two major ski resorts said they would be closing. A bartender in Park City tested positive for coronavirus, Utah state health officials said Saturday. They said it marked the first community spread in the state. Summit County Health Officer Rich Bullough cited that case and the fact that Park City is a major tourist destination in his order explaining the closure, which is in place until April  16, county health officials said. A total of 29 people in the state had tested positive for coronavirus as of Monday, according to state health officials. There have been no deaths. 
  Montpelier:  Gov. Phil Scott said Monday that he had reduced the size of public gatherings allowed in the state to 50, or 50% of an establishment’s capacity, as part of a further effort to reduce the spread of the new coronavirus. The move to reduce the size of allowable gatherings from 250 came a day after Scott ordered that the state’s pre-K-12 schools be closed no later than Tuesday. On Friday, when Scott declared an emergency to cope with the virus, he had said schools could stay open. “It’s important for Vermonters to know that additional measures are inevitable,” Scott said during a Monday briefing in Montpelier. Vermont Health Commissioner Dr. Mark Levine said the number of cases in the state is continuing to increase, and there is now evidence the virus is being spread by person-to-person contact rather than just through known sources of transmission such as foreign travel or contact with a sick individual.
  Richmond:  Misdemeanor, traffic and petty offense cases in federal court have been postponed in the Eastern District of Virginia in response to the coronavirus outbreak. The district also has suspended all non-case-related events, tours and other gatherings in courthouses, including naturalization ceremonies. Chief Judge Mark S. Davis said in a special order that there have been confirmed or presumptive cases of coronavirus within the Alexandria, Richmond and Norfolk divisions of the court. He also said there have been reports of people scheduled to appear in court who are under self-quarantine based on possible exposure. The order says the cases will be continued through April  30. New dates will be reset without the need to file any motions. The Richmond Times-Dispatch reports the delays caused by the continuances will be excluded from requirements of the Speedy Trial Act. 
  Olympia:  Gov. Jay Inslee on Monday said he would order all bars, restaurants, entertainment and recreation facilities to temporarily close to fight the spread of COVID-19 in the state with by far the most deaths in the U.S. from the disease. In a statement Sunday, Inslee said the ban, to be issued via emergency proclamation, wouldn’t apply to grocery stores and pharmacies, and restaurants could continue take-out and delivery services. No time frame was given on how long the restrictions will last. A spokesman for Inslee said they would take effect at 12:01  a.m. Tuesday. The governor also revised his ban on events to prohibit gatherings of 50 or more people. Previously the size limit was more than 250. “These are very difficult decisions, but hours count here, and very strong measures are necessary to slow the spread of the disease. I know there will be significant economic impacts to all our communities, and we are looking at steps to help address those challenges,” Inslee said. 
  Martinsburg:  An online-only mini-medical school program on the new coronavirus will be broadcast from  the West Virginia University Medicine East Facebook page  this week. WVU Medicine East said it will broadcast the program with the WVU Robert C. Byrd Health Sciences Center Eastern Campus. Infectious disease specialist Dr. Matthew Simmons of WVU Medicine East will discuss how Berkeley Medical Center and Jefferson Medical Center are working with local, state and federal agencies to monitor the outbreak. Simmons will also offer tips about how to prevent the spread of viruses and discuss how to stay safe from the coronavirus. The seminar will be broadcast at 7  p.m. Tuesday. It will also be available on the Patients & Visitors section of the  Berkeley Medical Center  and  Jefferson Medical Center  websites after the lecture. 
  Madison:  Gov. Tony Evers on Monday ordered a ban on all gatherings of more than 50 people, a dramatic move in line with federal recommendations and as other states took similar action to stop the spread of the new coronavirus. Evers tweeted that he was ordering the ban but said that “critical infrastructure and services such as grocery stores, food pantries, childcare centers, pharmacies, and hospitals will be exempt.” The order will force bars and restaurants to limit the number of customers on St. Patrick’s Day on Tuesday. He didn’t say how long the order would be in effect. “This isn’t a decision I made lightly and we understand this will have an impact on Wisconsin workers, families, businesses and communities, but keeping folks safe and healthy has to be our highest priority,” Evers tweeted.
  Cheyenne:  The University of Wyoming will go to online-only classes for the rest of this semester, and three of the state’s busiest ski resorts have closed for the season in response to the coronavirus pandemic. Many public K-12 schools around Wyoming were shutting down Monday through at least April  3 on the recommendation of state officials. University of Wyoming classes will go online starting March  30 following a two-week spring break that has been extended by a week due to the virus, university officials announced Monday. Jackson Hole Mountain Resort and nearby Grand Targhee plan to offer aid to employees affected by the early shutdown. The resorts typically remain open until well into April, but many ski resorts are closing amid the spread of the virus. Three people in Wyoming have tested positive for COVID-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus. 
  From USA TODAY Network and wire reports 
 