Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox.  Sign up here . 
  The party may finally be coming to an end for spring breakers in  Texas , which still had crowded beaches despite pleas to practice social distancing amid the  coronavirus pandemic .
  Officials in  South Padre Island  already had declared a  state of emergency  for  COVID-19 , but announced new restrictions Wednesday on public gatherings to limit  its spread .  As of 5 p.m. Wednesday, the city was limiting beach groups to 10 or less, officials said in a news release.
  "Our hope is that of the Federal and State government; that by imposing these measures quickly and firmly, we will help bring this national emergency to an end quickly and help revitalize the economy we all enjoy as soon as possible," the city said.
  FLORIDA GOVERNOR CALLS OUT SPRING BREAKERS FOR IGNORING CORONAVIRUS WARNINGS: 'THAT'S NOT WHAT WE WANT' 
  All dance floors are closed, food truck permits are suspended, and buffet-style service must have a server at each station,  according to the restrictions announced Wednesday .
  Despite pleas from the local government in recent days, spring breakers were still partying on area beaches this week.
  Video from Wednesday posted to  Instagram  showed two young men wrestling as fellow beachgoers cheer them on.
  Another photo from the University of Texas at San Antonio’s FIJI fraternity showed a gathering on the sand for spring break in South Padre Island.
  In  Florida , where massive crowds filled places like Clearwater Beach, officials have called out spring breakers for their behavior.
  FLORIDA BEACHES STILL BUSY DESPITE CORONAVIRUS PANDEMIC, PLEAS FOR SOCIAL DISTANCING 
  “The universities with the spring break … a lot of students have just been congregating at the universities and going out and doing things there, and that’s not something we want,” Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis said during a news conference on Tuesday.
  The White House warned Wednesday that  millennials may show a “disproportionate” number of positive coronavirus  cases and emphasized reports coming from Europe that have shown young people at risk of becoming “seriously ill.”
  “There are concerning reports coming out of France and Italy about some young people getting seriously ill in ICUs,” Dr. Deborah Birx, a member of the White House coronavirus task force, said during a press conference.
  CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP 
  Birx added that millennials “cannot keep having these large gatherings that continue to occur throughout the country for people who are off work to then be socializing in large groups and spreading the virus.”
  “You have the potential, then, to spread it to someone who does have a condition that none of us knew about and cause them to have a disastrous outcome,” Birx said.
  Fox News' Brooke Singman and Talia Kaplan contributed to this report.  
 