
  Stocks  rallied on Wednesday, bolstered by indications that a drug being tested as a possible treatment for Covid-19 could be showing progress, and as investors pinned their hopes on the gradual reopening of the world’s major economies. 
  The S&P 500 gained nearly 3 percent, while shares in Europe were also sharply higher.
  The rally came despite data that showed the U.S. economy shrank in the first quarter of the year by the most since 2008. Earnings reports from  Volkswagen ,  Samsung ,  Airbus, Boeing  and other giant businesses were also grim. 
  But investors have been shaking off bad news on the economy for weeks as they focus on progress on efforts to contain the coronavirus pandemic. A steady climb has lifted the S&P 500 by more than 31 percent since its March 23 low. With nearly half that gain coming in April, the month is on track to be the best for stocks since 1974, according to data from Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst for S&P Dow Jones Indices.
  The trading on Wednesday had all the hallmarks of a rally fueled by hopes of a return to normal, with shares of airlines and cruise operators — both industries that are dependent on the end of restrictions and the return of travelers — among the best-performing stocks in the S&P 500. Oil producers also rallied as the price of crude oil surged. 
  [ Follow our live stock market tracker and business news coverage .] 
  A rally in the stocks of large technology companies, which have an outsize impact on the overall market, also helped.  Alphabet  rose nearly 9 percent the day after it reported quarterly results that were better than expected, and  Facebook  was more than 6 percent higher.
  Before trading began Wednesday, the drugmaker  Gilead   Sciences  said  it was “aware of positive data”  emerging from a trial of its antiviral drug being conducted by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. The drug, remdesivir, is being tested as a treatment for Covid-19, the illness caused by the coronavirus.
  Tesla  on Wednesday reported a steep drop in net income in the first quarter compared with the previous quarter, as the coronavirus pandemic disrupted the electric-car maker’s operations in the United States and China, its two largest markets.
  Elon Musk, the company’s chief executive, said the company would continue to face difficulties as long as it was forced to keep its plant in Fremont, Calif., closed under the state’s stay-at-home order.
  “We are a bit worried about when we will be able to resume production in the Bay Area,” Mr. Musk said on a conference call with reporters.
  He went on to say the stay-at-home order was “fascist” and amounted to “forcibly imprisoning people in their homes against all their constitutional rights.” 
  “They’re breaking people’s freedoms in ways that are wrong and are not why people came here or built this country,” he said.
   California imposed the lockdown in March and required all nonessential businesses to close. But Tesla told employees at the Freemont plant to report to work unless they were sick, or to take vacation days if they stayed at home. The local sheriff’s office forced the company to obey the state order and close the plant.
  Tesla’s plant in Shanghai has resumed production.
  On Wednesday, the company reported $16 million in net income for the first three months of the year, a drop of 85 percent compared with the fourth quarter. Revenue in the quarter totaled $6 billion, a 20 percent drop from the previous quarter.
  Tesla declined to offer guidance for the second quarter because of the uncertain economic and public health outlook. The company’s shares surged 10 percent after the market closed. 
  The Federal Reserve said on Wednesday that it would take  whatever steps it could  to insulate the economy as coronavirus lockdowns take a severe toll on economic growth, making clear that the central bank will use all its tools to help hasten a recovery. 
  The Fed, which had already slashed interest rates to near zero at two emergency meetings, left its benchmark rate unchanged and signaled it had no plans to raise rates anytime soon.
  The Fed chair, Jerome H. Powell, speaking at a news conference immediately after its two-day policy meeting, said the economy was suffering from the “forceful” steps the country had taken to slow the spread of the virus, and said it remained unclear how long the economic stress would continue,  Jeanna Smialek reports .
  “The depth and the duration of the economic downturn are unknown,” Mr. Powell said, adding that “the burdens are falling most heavily on those least able to carry them.”
  The central bank has already taken a series of aggressive steps to try to backstop the economy, including buying enormous quantities of government and mortgage-backed debt. The Fed has also unveiled a spate of emergency programs that either buy debt or loan money into critical sectors. 
  U.S. gross domestic product, the broadest measure of goods and services produced in the economy, fell at a 4.8 percent annual rate in the first quarter of the year, the Commerce Department said Wednesday. That is the first decline since 2014, and the worst quarterly contraction since the country was in a deep recession more than a decade ago. 
  Even so, most of the quarter came before the coronavirus pandemic forced widespread shutdowns and layoffs. Economists expect figures from the current quarter to show G.D.P. contracting at an annual rate of 30 percent or more.
  “They’re going to be the worst in our lifetime,” said Dan North, chief economist for the credit insurance company Euler Hermes North America.
  Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said this week that the economy should “ really bounce back ” this summer as states lift stay-home orders and trillions of dollars in federal emergency spending reaches businesses and households. Most independent economists are much less optimistic.
  The estimates made public on Wednesday are preliminary and based on incomplete data, particularly for March. Some economists expect final figures, due later this spring, to show an even bigger decline.
  Hertz Global Holdings  said in a regulatory filing Wednesday that it had missed a monthly payment on the lease it used to procure cars for its rental-car fleet.
  The company said its business had been battered by the global pandemic, and it had skipped Monday’s payment to preserve cash for its core operations.
  Hertz did not disclose the amount of the missed payment, but said it was in a grace period that would end on May 4. 
  The company was dealing with a significant decline in travel demand, said Lauren Luster, a Hertz spokeswoman. “Conversations with our lenders are ongoing and we remain in discussions with the U.S. Treasury for support,” she said.
  In its filing, the company said it was talking with two groups of lenders about temporarily reducing the lease payments. One group of lenders, the holders of its vehicle-financing subsidiary’s notes, had already agreed to such a reduction, the company said. But the other group, described as its senior credit facility lenders, had not.
  If Hertz cannot reach an agreement with the second group by May 4, the company could be forced into bankruptcy.
  Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said on Wednesday that he hoped to not lose money on the Federal Reserve lending facilities that the Treasury is supporting with its $454 billion bailout fund. 
  If the economic recovery plays out as he expects, the federal government will not suffer deep losses on the loans.
  Mr. Mnuchin has faced criticism from some businesses for not working with the Federal Reserve to deploy the bailout fund more aggressively and for having an aversion to taking credit losses. In a virtual briefing with reporters on Zoom, Mr. Mnuchin said that he was reserving about half of the money so that he had ammunition to stabilize markets if necessary in the coming months.
  “I think it’s pretty clear if Congress wanted me to lose all of the money, that money would have been designed as subsidies and grants as opposed to credit support,” Mr. Mnuchin said.
  The Treasury secretary said that he was not looking at the loans from the perspective of a pension or private equity fund seeking high return, but that in the best-case scenario, the government would recover its money from the loans. However, he said there was considerable uncertainty.
  “There’s plenty of scenarios where we lose all of our money,” he said. “There also could be scenarios where the world turns out better and we make money.”
  The deluge of  first-quarter reports  this week is giving investors a detailed look at how the start of the coronavirus crisis affected businesses. Of course, second-quarter earnings this year may well be even more grim. 
 