This briefing is no longer updating. Read the latest developments in the coronavirus outbreak  here . 
  Stocks ended slightly higher on Thursday, after a volatile session, as investors weighed fresh evidence of a sharp economic decline against efforts in the United States and Europe to offset the damage. 
  By the end of the day, which had started with a sharp drop on Wall Street, the S&P 500 rose by less than 1 percent, and shares in Europe also scratched out small gains. Oil prices, which had collapsed by more than 20 percent on Wednesday, sharply rebounded. 
  Markets in Asia-Pacific showed a little more optimism on Friday morning. Stocks in Sydney, Australia; Hong Kong; Seoul, South Korea and Taiwan were all trading up 3 percent or higher. In Tokyo, the market was down 1 percent in early morning trading. 
  The uneven trading came as the steady drumbeat of bad news about the spread of the coronavirus, and its impact on the economy, continued. 
  In the United States, the number of workers filing  first-time claims for unemployment insurance  surged, government data released on Thursday showed. Those figures do not reflect the sharp cuts made in the past few days as companies quickly scale down operations. And a survey of manufacturers by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia showed a sudden drop off in activity.
  Economists in recent days have made  increasingly dire predictions  about the likely damage to the job market, with many predicting that the unemployment rate would quickly surpass the 10 percent level it hit in the worst of the last recession.
  “This is a body blow to the economy unlike anything we’ve experienced in recent memory,” said Patrick Anderson, an economist in East Lansing, Mich. “Even the Great Recession did not include shuttering of businesses by government order at the same time that people were being told to say home and distance themselves.”
  Overnight,  the European Central Bank unveiled a huge bond-buying program  aimed at preventing economic calamity,  and the  Fed  presented a plan to support money market funds, which are threatened when there is a rush for cash. U.S. officials made progress on passage of stimulus efforts to keep the American economy running. The Bank of England on Thursday announced that it would reduce its  benchmark interest rate  to 0.1 percent and increase its buying of British government bonds and corporate bonds.
  On Thursday, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said that the White House’s economic relief plan included sending checks of $1,000 for every American adult and $500 per child within three weeks.    If the crisis continues, the plan would be to send checks of the same amounts again in May. 
  But news of efforts to bolster the economy has been matched by a sharp escalation in the number of  coronavirus cases in Europe  and the United States, and fresh evidence of the impact on businesses. On Thursday,  Ford Motor  said that it would suspend its dividend payment and draw down about $15 billion from two lines of credit to help offset the impact of coronavirus-related production shutdowns, becoming the latest company to take such measures to cushion itself.
  Tesla , the luxury electric carmaker, said on Thursday that it would temporarily shut down production at its factory in the San Francisco Bay Area starting Monday.
  The company was under increasing pressure from local government officials and workers in recent days to stop making cars. Much of the Bay Area, including Tesla’s factory in Fremont, are under orders to shelter in place.
  Earlier on Thursday, Kimberly Petersen, the chief of the Fremont Police Department, and other city officials had planned to meet with Tesla management to discuss compliance with an order by Alameda County limiting the operations of nonessential businesses, the department said on Twitter.
  Airbnb , the home rental start-up, has been holding talks with investors about new funding as the spread of the coronavirus ravages its business ahead of its planned initial public offering.
  The company, which is based in San Francisco, is valued at $31 billion by private investors. It began fielding unsolicited offers last week from venture capital firms, private equity firms and sovereign wealth funds, according to a person familiar with the situation. Offers have ranged from $100 million to $1 billion, the person said. Valuations have not yet been discussed.
  The deal talks were  first reported by CNBC .
  Airbnb has not decided whether it will raise more funding, which could be used to snap up smaller competitors that are struggling amid the industry downturn, the person said. The company has $3 billion in cash on its balance sheet and access to another $1 billion line of credit.
  In the past, Airbnb has turned a profit on its operations, unlike many of the cash-burning start-ups that went public last year and saw their  stock prices fall as they struggled to make money . But the coronavirus has ground tourism to a halt in many parts of the world, putting Airbnb in a difficult position.
  The company matches home rental operators with guests and takes a fee on the transaction. It recently announced that any guests wishing to cancel would get a full refund on their booking, providing relief to travelers but prompting ire from  rental operators who rely on the income . In China, Airbnb established a $10 million fund to support its hosts.
   On Tuesday Airbnb asked Congress for relief measures including low-interest loans for its rental operators.
   Airbnb is under pressure to go public before some of its early employees shares  begin to expire later this year . Last fall, it announced it would go public in 2020. It has retained Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs to advise on the deal.
  Layoffs rose sharply last week as the effects of the coronavirus pandemic began to ripple through the economy. Some 281,000 Americans  filed first-time claims for unemployment insurance , up by 33 percent from 211,000 the week before, the Labor Department said Thursday. On a percentage basis, the increase was among the largest one-week surges on record.
  The Labor Department said the increase was “clearly attributable to impacts from the Covid-19 virus” and noted that many states reported a rise in jobless claims from workers in food services, accommodation and travel.
  Still, the data released Thursday was for claims filed from March 8-14, before the outbreak began to shut down restaurants, bars and retail stores in much of the country. The next report, which will reflect the first wave of closings, will almost certainly be much worse. 
  On Thursday, Kohl’s and TJX, the owner of T.J. Maxx, Marshalls and Home Goods, decided to follow many major retail chains in temporarily closing stores after initially resisting the move. Kohl’s said it would close its stores nationwide on Thursday at 7 p.m. “through at least April 1.” TJX said on its website that it would close its stores globally, along with its online businesses, for two weeks.
  Simon Property Group, America’s biggest mall operator, and Taubman Centers, which oversees malls including the Mall at Short Hills in New Jersey, announced temporary closures on Wednesday and Thursday as well.
  Employees for retail chains that sell nonessential goods have been  expressing fear  about their commutes and working in stores while the coronavirus spreads. Some chains like GameStop and Starbucks remained open as of Thursday afternoon. 
  With its largest division (theme parks and consumer products)  essentially closed , its movie and television studios idled and its ESPN operation with no live sports to broadcast, the  Walt Disney Company’s   market capitalization  has fallen by about $57 billion over the last month.
  Disney, which has  a new chief executive , said in a  regulatory filing  on Thursday that it had become “challenging” to estimate future performance for various divisions.
  Disney’s primary competitors have also been in free fall. But those giants have more diversified holdings.  Comcast , with its internet and cable hookup unit offsetting its  NBCUniversal  movie and theme park division, has  shed about $30 billion  in value over the last month.  AT&T , which owns  WarnerMedia , home to  HBO ,  TNT ,  TBS ,  CNN  and  Warner Bros. , is  down by about $41 billion .
 