Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox.  Sign up here. 
  While the government expects some setbacks in  its plan to reopen  the nation's  economy ,  contact tracing  is necessary to respond to any resurgence in  coronavirus cases ,  United States Surgeon General Jerome Adams  said Friday.
  Appearing on  "Fox & Friends"  with hosts Steve Doocy, Ainsley Earhardt, and Brian Kilmeade, Adams said that the guidelines the administration released at Thursday's  White House Coronavirus Task Force briefing  are "deliberative," "measured," and based on a " data-driven approach  to letting people all across the country know how they can reopen safely."
  CLICK HERE FOR COMPLETE CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE 
  He assured the "Friends" hosts that in the  disaster response  cycle, there is always an effort to plan for and think toward the future.
  "There is criteria [in the guidelines] that people need to make sure they can satisfy before they even start to think about reopening. And then, once they meet those initial criteria, there are phases you progress through so you are not just flipping on a light switch," Adams explained.
  "You are slowly starting to go back to  work . You are slowly starting to go back to  movie theaters  and  restaurants  with social distancing," he continued.
  "And, one of the things I want the American people to know is that we do expect that there will be setbacks in some places. But, one of the criteria is making sure you have the ability to quickly detect these setbacks and respond to them so that one case doesn't become a thousand cases," Adams stated.
  "So, we can do contact tracing and then shut things down if we need to in the places we need to," he remarked.
  In accordance with  President Trump ,  governors  across the country are  rolling out their own plans  to reopen the economy.
  The president declared Thursday that the U.S. was moving on to its next stage in the fight against the  virus  and also announced a  bipartisan council of lawmakers  dedicated to restarting the economy.
  CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP 
  "We can begin the next front in our war, which we are calling 'Opening Up America Again,'" Trump said during the daily press briefing. "To preserve the  health  of Americans, we must preserve the health of our economy."
  "We are not opening all at once, but one careful step at a time," he told reporters, adding that the guidelines were "based on hard verifiable data."
  Fox News' Tyler Olson, Andrew O'Reilly, Bradford Betz, Nick Givas, and Brooke Singman contributed to this report. 
 