One of the problems with being inundated with waves of executive branch incompetence is that ordinary citizens and outside observers become inured to it.
  To be clear, this does not imply public acceptance of the incompetence — the  polling is clear  that Americans are  sick and tired  of the United States winning the coronavirus infection race and not in the good way. What it means is that the waves of calamity run so regular and so deep that it is truly impossible to keep up with everything.
  The hard-working staff here at Spoiler Alerts has an occasional feature of how the Trump White House is  beclowning  the federal government. It’s time for an update of the omnishambles.
  The most appropriate place to start is in the White House’s continuing placement of D-listers into the federal government. On Wednesday, the White House  announced  that Trump intended to nominate  Everyone’s Favorite PhD , Sebastian Gorka, to serve on the  National Security Education Board . Gorka’s qualifications for this seat are  dubious at best , but the most insane part of this is that it is a four-year term.
  Gorka’s persuasive abilities are nonexistent, so his actual effect on, well, anything of substance will be minimal. Still, one must pity the other members of that board for having to deal with this buffoon until 2023.
  Gorka is a joke. Trump’s new head of the U.S. Agency for Global Media (USAGM), Michael Pack, has taken less amusing actions, however. Pack, a Stephen K. Bannon partner, oversees Voice of America and other USAGM media outlets that broadcast overseas.
  Since the GOP-controlled Senate approved his appointment in  a party-line vote last month under murky circumstances , Pack has been busy. He  fired the directors  of four of the media outlets under his control, leading to  bipartisan  outrage on Capitol Hill. This has not deterred Pack in the slightest, as he has  continued to fire a bevy of editors and governing board members .
  According to NPR , “Dozens of foreign nationals working as journalists in the U.S. for Voice of America, the federal government’s international broadcaster, will not have their visas extended once they expire.” Pack seems  super-eager not to renew these visas  either. As The Post  noted in an editorial  last week, this move could “put the current VOA foreign employees in danger, if they are forced to return to countries whose regimes disapprove of VOA reports. … Mr. Pack’s actions could put the personal security of dozens of journalists at risk, along with the reputation and integrity of the VOA itself.” Pack is, alas, not nearly as funny as Gorka.
  Perhaps Pack is simply trying to follow the lead of Ivanka Trump, the White House staffer who rolled out a new White House employment initiative telling unemployed workers to “find something new.” As my Post colleague  Hamza Shaban reported , asking the president’s daughter to be the point person on this “was swiftly derided on social media as ‘clueless’ and ‘tone-deaf’ given the pandemic, recession and Trump’s own familial employment history.”
  Ivanka Trump successfully moved on from that fiasco to an entirely new fiasco:
  Ivanka is a joke; Peter Navarro is a more malevolent joke. Inspired by a futile  Trump-inspired  White House effort to bring Anthony S. Fauci down a peg or two, the White House trade adviser ill-advisedly  wrote a USA Today op-ed  that claimed the National Institutes of Health doctor “has been wrong about everything I have interacted with him on.” Readers will be shocked to hear that the man who  cannot negotiate his way out of any trade conflict  was  a bit fact-challenged  in his argument.
  If  this is what  Navarro thinks is right , then I will take Fauci being wrong every day of the week and twice on Sundays. Indeed, the op-ed was so absurdly over-the-top that it actually forced the White House to walk it back:
  Trump’s staffing decisions are bad, but his policy decisions are nothing short of baffling. On Tuesday, Immigration and Customs Enforcement  rescinded a rule  it had issued just a week earlier that would have prohibited foreign students from staying in the country if their courses had been online only. This was a stupid and capricious rule to issue in the first place and was immediately met with  lawsuits . Even the Trump administration seemed to realize that it had screwed up. It will still  do damage , however.
  The administration’s inept handling of covid-19 continues unabated. There are  international tensions  to be sure, but as the number of infections continues to mushroom, the administration’s response has been to … rejigger the control over data. According to the  New York Times’s Sheryl Gay Stolberg :
  If you read the whole thing, you will see that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is far from perfect in its data collection. The Trump administration has generated  zero trust  in its ability to do anything in a nonpartisan fashion, however. It seems difficult to interpret this as anything but a political move to remove transparency from politically salient information.
  There’s more — the  slow-motion destruction of the Postal Service , the  complete lack of preparedness  for another pandemic and the general  erosion of America’s standing in the world . But another 2,000 words on this will be an exercise in the law of diminishing marginal returns. It is instead worth remembering that all of this  incompetence and malfeasance starts with the president .
  Exhibit A of where the executive branch is under this president was on display Tuesday, when Trump gave  a White House news conference  that, as  the New York Times’s Peter Baker noted , called some to question the president’s mental faculties:
  There is a lot going on in the rest of the world, and I am sick and tired of writing about the Trump administration’s  serial incompetence .
  In theory, this comes to an end in January. My concern is that what started as  the erosion of the American state  in 2017 is accelerating into its irreversible destruction.
  With this much beclowning, six months feels like an eternity.
 