with Paulina Firozi
  THE LIGHTBULB 
  Amid the  coronavirus  pandemic, the White House is no longer considering entirely waiving payments made by companies to the federal government for pumping oil and gas on public lands and waters , according to industry officials. 
  President Trump’s decision to forgo blanket relief on royalty payments for now to beleaguered U.S. oil companies was described by three industry sources who were briefed by administration officials and who  spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive matters. It  comes as the president grapples with how to help an industry that is reeling from the economic effects of the virus. The Wall Street Journal  first reported  the decision on royalty relief. 
  In recent weeks, the U.S. oil sector has been dealt dual body blows:  a precipitous drop in demand for gasoline and jet fuel as Americans stay home to stop the spread of the  novel coronavirus  and  a glut of oil  from Saudi Arabia and Russia, which have opened the spigot on production in response to the outbreak. 
  Dozens of Trump allies in Congress, including House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-La.),  urged  the president to give oil companies a break in paying royalties given their precarious financial position.  And unlike some other proposals to help the U.S. oil industry, the notion of giving companies a holiday on royalty payments faced little opposition from key industry players who have the president’s ear. 
  But Trump’s decision to not follow that advice comes amid a tough balancing act.  
  Hoping the decision is just temporary, major offshore oil producers that had pressed for royalty relief said that, absent federal help, Gulf of Mexico states such as Texas may see thousands of layoffs in the industry. 
  “There is a severe risk that many companies and thousands of workers along the Gulf Coast will disappear forever,” Erik Milito, president of the National Ocean Industries Association, said in a statement Wednesday. 
  Republicans in Congress who had called for royalty relief warned of bankruptcies, too, without aid.  “Many energy producers — especially the small and medium sized independents — will not survive under the current conditions," Rep. Jodey Arrington (R-Tex.) said in a statement. “We should be careful not to further distort the market with mandates and tariffs, but aggressive regulatory and royalty relief is critical to providing desperately needed breathing room for our producers. If we don’t, we risk losing the most dynamic and efficient energy landscape in the world.”
  But ashore in New Mexico and elsewhere, there are other political considerations.  Royalty receipts are shared equally between the U.S. Treasury and the state from which the oil and gas were extracted. Lower rates means less money for local governments in Western states such New Mexico. 
  To boot, many of the shale producers in Texas and North Dakota hit hardest by the drop in oil prices operate on state or private land  — meaning federal royalty waivers would be of little help to them. 
  And though it is unlikely they swayed Trump’s ultimate decision, congressional Democrats lashed out at the idea of blanket royalty relief.  “ A national emergency is not an opportunity to do favors for the oil and gas industry, especially favors that have no legal basis, policy rationale, or societal benefit,” House Natural Resources Committee Chair Raúl M. Grijalva (D-Ariz.) and 15 other House Democrats said in a letter to Interior Secretary  David Bernhardt .
  Interior spokesman Conner Swanson said officials will still consider offering royalty relief on a case-by-case basis. “The Department has already established processes by which companies can apply for discretionary royalty relief,” he said by email. The White House did not respond to a request for comment. 
  Besides giving companies a break on royalties, there are other measures that could help U.S. oil companies — namely tariffs — in Trump’s policy toolbox.  Shale billionaire and Trump donor  Harold Hamm has  loudly  called for the Commerce Department to open an investigation into Saudi Arabia for dumping crude into the market that could lead to penalties for the country's oil. 
  And Trump,  who once called himself "a Tariff Man,"  seems willing to consider them.
  “I would do tariffs, very substantial tariffs,” Trump  said  during a news conference Sunday. He added: “If I did the tariffs, we essentially would be saying, ‘We don’t want foreign oil. We don’t want any foreign oil. We’re just going to use our oil.’ And that would help to save an industry.”
  But major energy multinationals, who don ’ t want to pay more for foreign crude they use at their Gulf refineries, have pushed back against tariffs.  Top executives from ExxonMobil, Chevron and Phillips 66 met with Trump at the White House on Friday to express their concerns about a border tax and emphasize the bigger problem is not an oversupply from the Saudis, but a lack of demand.
  Trump left the White House sit-down on Friday "with a full appreciation of the importance to oil markets of getting through this pandemic,” said American Petroleum Institute chief and tariff opponent Mike Sommers, who attended the meeting.
  — Bernie Sanders drops out:  The independent senator from Vermont ended his presidential bid, clearing the path for former vice president Joe Biden to be the Democratic nominee to take on Trump in November. 
   
  — Summer unlikely to bring infection reprieve:  A panel convened by the National Academies of Sciences said it is not likely the coronavirus will significantly ease with the arrival of warmer weather during the summer,  Andrew Freedman reports .
  — Commercial fishing industry in free fall during pandemic:  Restaurants are closed, demand for seafood is down, and fisheries in the United States have reported a sales collapse as high as 95 percent,  Laura Reiley reports . The $2 trillion coronavirus relief package from Congress was meant to in part aid the industry, with “$300 million for operators experiencing losses greater than 35 percent, including subsistence, commercial and charter fisheries, as well as fish farms.” But some worry their portion won’t be adequate. 
  — U.S. inks deal with GM for ventilators:  General Motors signed a $490 million agreement with the federal government to provide 30,000 ventilators, an order that’s set to be completed by the end of August,  Reed Albergotti and Faiz Siddiqui report . The Department of Health and Human Services “said it expects GM to deliver more than 6,000 ventilators to the Strategic National Stockpile of medical devices by June 1." The cost per unit will be about $17,000.
  — Another national park has closed:  The National Park Service closed Shenandoah National Park in Virginia after a recommendation from the state’s health department. “Officials had already taken measures to encourage social distancing in the 300-square-mile park, including shutting down picnic grounds, bathrooms and the popular Old Rag trail,”  Jessica Contrera writes . “Now, Shenandoah will join Yellowstone, the Grand Canyon and dozens of other parklands in accepting no visitors." 
  — Environmental group criticizes new White House press secretary for 2013 climate comment:  The Environmental Defense Fund is resurfacing a February 2013 interview that Kayleigh McEnany did on Fox Business Channel, now that she has been  named the new White House press secretary .
  — The continued push against reusable bags:  Some stores in Virginia want Gov. Ralph Northam (D) to veto a bill that would discourage plastic bag use, and the Virginia Food Industry Association urged him to veto two measures that would allow localities to impose a single-use plastic bag tax. As the coronavirus spreads, some grocers are worried about the health risks of bags that are not frequently washed,  Laura Vozzella reports .
  — How did a tiger, 4-year-old Nadia at the Bronx Zoo in New York, contract covid-19?  It’s an unlikely infection that has brought up numerous questions, including whether humans can pass the coronavirus to pets. “As experts scratched their heads in New York, a study released this week by the University of California at Davis explored a broader problem related to human contact with wildlife. Manipulation of the environment by humankind, the study said, has made deadly pandemics inevitable,”  Darryl Fears reports .
  — What material you should use to make a DIY face mask?  The coronavirus is extremely tiny and won’t be trapped by most fabrics that allow air to flow through them. So what material is best for making a homemade mask? U.S. health officials have asked that N95 respirators and surgical masks be saved for health-care workers. The CDC recommends “two layers of tightly woven 100 percent cotton fabric, such as quilter’s material or bedsheets with a high thread count" and a group of Wake Forest University scientists and doctors found good options are a “double layer of cotton with a thread count of at least 180, and a double layer of normal cotton with a layer of flannel in between,”  Bonnie Berkowitz and Aaron Steckelberg explain .
 