with Brent D. Griffiths 
  Jay Powell for months has signaled to lawmakers they need to provide more emergency relief to prop up an economy rocked by the pandemic.  The Federal Reserve chair on Wednesday delivered his closest message yet to an S.O.S. 
  Powell has carefully avoided appearing to give explicit policy advice to Congress. With the resurgence of the coronavirus  stressing  an already-fragile recovery and lawmakers  mired  in disagreement about the size and shape of the next installment of federal aid, the central bank chief suggested urgency is growing for lawmakers to reopen their spending spigot.
  “Fiscal policy can address things that we can’t address,” Powell said at a virtual news conference Wednesday afternoon after Fed officials concluded a two-day meeting by  keeping  interest rates close to zero.
  Responding to a question about whether it is now “up to the fiscal authorities at this point to rescue the economy,” Powell said he “would not disagree with the importance of fiscal policy.” 
  And in what could have been an attempt to give cover to Republicans raising hackles about the growing debt pile, he credited earlier congressional relief with averting an even more severe economic shock. “It’s really helping. It’s going to stand up very well to scrutiny down the years,” Powell said. “Congress’s very fast and very openhanded response I think has really helped… As I’ve said, very likely,  more will be needed from all of us. I see Congress negotiating now over a new package, and I think that’s a good thing.” 
  Since the Fed chair’s last news conference on June 10,  coronavirus  cases have spiked across the South and West, forcing states to reverse reopening plans. The renewed restrictions, and freshly stoked popular fear of the pandemic, sent the nascent economic rebound into a sputter.
  Powell said the Fed is monitoring the slowdown closely through real-time measures of activity, including credit card data, restaurant reservations, hotel occupancy rates and consumer surveys.  He called the pandemic and its fallout “ the biggest shock to the U.S. economy in living memory.”  
  The second-quarter GDP report coming out this morning is expected to add grist to the claim, with economists projecting it to show activity dropped at a 35 percent annual rate from April to June.  “ Moreover, experts warn that Thursday’s GDP release shouldn’t just be seen in the rear view mirror, but should stand as a cautionary tale of what’s at stake if the recovery slips away,” Rachel Siegel and Andrew Van Dam  write .  
  Powell said the path forward remains “extraordinarily uncertain” and relies on the course of the virus. While that amounted to “a ‘duh’ comment,” Capital Alpha’s Ian Katz writes in a note,  “it’s also a signal to the public and public officials that all the highfalutin Fed lending and liquidity programs in the world won’t matter if people are too sick or too afraid to buy and do stuff.”  
  Indeed, Powell also noted the monetary policymakers at the Fed are doing everything they can to backstop the recovery, including by keeping short-term interest rates near zero. At his last press conference, Powell said the Fed isn’t even “thinking about thinking about” raising them. On Wednesday, for what it’s worth, he went a rhetorical beat further: “We’re not even thinking about thinking about thinking about raising rates,” he said.
  Via CNBC:
  And Powell said the Fed remains “committed to using our tools to do what we can and for as long as it takes” to limit the pandemic’s economic fallout. Those include boosting the Fed’s purchases of Treasury securities and mortgage-backed securities “at least at the current pace over the coming months,”  per Rachel Siegel . "The Fed has said its support of the markets should remain in place to help safeguard the broader financial system during the pandemic.”
  But the central bank chief also acknowledged the Fed can’t battle the economic crisis alone.  David Kelly, chief global strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management, described Powell on a conference call as “a card player playing poker, and he’s been all in for a while here.”  But he said Powell made clear “the truth is the economy is being determined, a., by the course of the pandemic, and b., fiscal policy.”
  Senate Republican leaders continue  struggling  to forge consensus within the GOP conference on their version of an emergency relief package. The most divisive issue they face: The trillion-dollar price tag.
  “From the presidentially ambitious Sens. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) and Josh Hawley (R-Mo.), to onetime deficit hawks like Sen. Patrick J. Toomey (R-Pa.), conservatives are abandoning the president as his top aides struggle with negotiations on a pandemic relief bill,” Paul Kane  writes . “Ignoring their own record of support for adding trillions of dollars to the national debt, these conservatives have signaled that they think, in a post-Trump Republican Party, that deficits will return to the forefront just as they did in the first years of the Obama administration.”
  It’s hardly clear Powell, a registered Republican himself, will prove more convincing to this bunch on the need for more spending than aides to the president who nominated him.  At a minimum, Powell’s warning about a stalling recovery and the need for more support should brace business leaders and investors who still form the backbone of the GOP’s major donor class.  Investors on Wednesday focused instead on his pledge to provide more monetary stimulus. The S&P 500  climbed  1.2 percent on the day.
  The parties remain trillions of dollars apart:  “A meeting between top White House officials and Democratic leaders ended with no agreement on extending emergency unemployment benefits that expire Friday or on reviving a moratorium on evictions that lapsed last week. That means some 20 million jobless Americans will lose $600 weekly enhanced unemployment benefits that Congress approved in March, which could send the economy reeling,”  Erica Werner, Jeff Stein, Seung Min Kim and Rachael Bade report .
  A short-term patch is off the table, for now:  “ Democrats shot down the idea of a short-term fix for unemployment insurance and the eviction moratorium, which [Trump] had announced earlier he would support." 
  Talks break down:  Senate Majority Leader Mitch “ McConnell is leaving negotiations with Democrats to Trump administration officials. The whole process has been overtaken by increasingly bitter partisanship, which was on display on the Senate floor as McConnell and [Senate Minority Leader Charles E.] Schumer traded insults.”
  Party on?:  McConnell told PBS NewsHour last night he remains hopeful,  “This is only Wednesday.” But he also said there are about 20 GOP senators who would prefer not to vote for any bill. 
  The administration's odd couple:  “[White House chief of staff Mark]  Meadows and {Treasury Secretary Steven] Mnuchin hail from different corners of the GOP. One was a hard-line House conservative who regularly tanked spending bills pushed by his own party leaders; the other previously had interests in Wall Street and Hollywood and has been deeply enmeshed in enacting legislation doling out trillions to respond to the coronavirus crisis,"  Politico's John Bresnahan and Marianne LeVine report  of duo leading White House negotiations.
  From the COVID Tracking Project:
  Four of the industry's most powerful executives were pressed on antitrust issues:  “The leaders of Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google took a brutal political lashing Wednesday as Democrats and Republicans confronted the executives for wielding their market power to crush competitors and amass data, customers and sky-high profits,” Tony Romm  reports .
  “The rare interrogation played out over the course of a nearly six-hour hearing, with lawmakers on the House’s top antitrust subcommittee coming armed with millions of documents, hundreds of hours of interviews and in some cases the once-private messages of Silicon Valley’s elite chiefs. They said it showed some in the tech sector had become too big and powerful, threatening rivals, consumers and, in some cases, even democracy itself.”
  Two key moments: 
  Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg was hammered over internal emails:  “Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), the top lawmaker on the House Judiciary Committee, brought up a 2012 message in which Zuckerberg apparently said he sought to acquire Instagram, which at the time was a rival photo-sharing app, out of fear that it could ‘meaningfully hurt us.’ Later, Rep. Joe Neguse (D-Colo.) pointed to other Facebook communications that described the company’s acquisition strategy generally as ‘a land grab.’”
  And Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos made a stunning admission:  “Amazon, meanwhile, faced withering scrutiny over allegations it may have misled the committee. The e-commerce giant previously told lawmakers it does not tap data from third-party sellers to boost sales of its own products. But Democratic Rep. Pramila Jayapal (Wash.) brought up public reports that indicated to the contrary, prompting Bezos — delivering his first-ever testimony to Congress — to offer a striking admission of potential fault.”
  The photography giant's foray in drugmaking was supposed to be under wraps:  “Trading activity picked up in shares of Eastman Kodak before the company announced on Tuesday that it had been tapped by the Trump administration to manufacture drug ingredients, data from FactSet shows,” CNBC's Pippa Stevens  reports .
  “On Monday, 1,645,719 shares traded hands, far surpassing Friday’s 74,893 trades, and Thursday’s 80,840 trades. Not including this week, over the last year the average daily trading volume has been 236,479, according to FactSet.”
  Some top donors are among those hoping to keep her off the ticket:  “This disgruntled group of at least a dozen Biden backers, including a few of his top donors, initiated the move against Harris (D-Calif.) close to a month ago, just weeks before a decision is expected,” CNBC's Brian Schwartz  reports .
  “In some cases, her foes have taken their concerns directly to members of Biden’s VP search committee, led by former Sen. Chris Dodd, Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-Del.) and Cynthia Hogan, who previously served as counsel to the presumptive Democratic nominee when he was vice president under President Barack Obama."
  A number of prominent Democrats blasted the behind-the-scenes effort and came to Harris's defense on Twitter. From Preet Bharara,  former U. S. attorney for the Southern District of New York:  
  Today: 
  Friday: 
 