with Brent D. Griffiths
  No, you can’t get paid to put gas in your car, now that oil futures have dropped into negative territory.
  But when the price of the commodity fell below zero Monday for the first time in history — crashing past negative $40 in the late afternoon before recovering somewhat — it signaled a deep disruption in a coronavirus-battered market that could reverberate throughout the wider economy.
  A short-term kink in the oil market precipitated the collapse as several factors converged. 
  A glut in supply — driven by Saudi Arabia and Russia flooding the world with production in their recent price war, and vanishing demand as people around the world shelter in place and international trade dries up — has left storage tanks close to full.  That means oil producers literally are running out of places to put what they’re pulling out of the ground. 
  The storage hub of Cushing, Okla., for example, is three-quarters full , with “ only 21 million barrels of free storage left, according to Rystad Energy, or less than two days of American production,”  per  the New York Times's Stanley Reed and Clifford Kraus. “As recently as February, Cushing was not even up to 50 percent. Now, experts say it will be filled to the brim in May.” 
  And the squeeze that has put on prices just collided with the expiration today of May futures contracts for West Texas Intermediate crude oil, the U.S. benchmark. “The price of oil futures converge with the price of actual barrels of oil as the delivery date of the contracts approach,” the Wall Street Journal’s Ryan Dezember  writes . “Contract expiration also flushes out speculators who have no intention to take delivery of barrels of crude. Exchange-traded funds, which control a large number of futures contracts, are among those that must sell at expiration. The forced selling adds downward pressure to prices.”
  But even now, consumers shouldn’t expect free fuel from Monday’s gyration . The June futures price for West Texas crude remains in positive territory. It has slipped below its recent $20 level this morning to settle below $15 a barrel. Meanwhile, Brent — the international benchmark, which is less subject to storage shortages — “ declined 24% to $19.40 a barrel, the lowest since 2002,"  per Bloomberg . Nevertheless, "that means that by late spring, traders are betting that oil will still have some value,” Will Englund  notes .  Nationally, the average cost of a gallon of gas now sits at $1.81, down about a dollar over the last year.  
  He opened the door for the federal government to buy oil on the cheap and top off the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. The president said the government is looking to add up to 75 million barrels, which would meet the reserve's 635 million barrel capacity. “But the reserve can take only about 500,000 barrels a day,” the Times notes. 
  Trump's latest posture marked a 360-degree pivot as prices have dropped recently : A week ago, he  touted  a deal he helped broker between Saudia Arabia and Russia to slash production as a major win for the domestic energy industry to “save hundreds of thousands of energy jobs in the United States.” (It  is set to cut output  by an estimated 10 million barrels a day, but oil consumption is expected to fall as much as 30 million barrels a day.) 
  A month before the deal, Trump  hailed  cheaper oil as a win for consumers, since it would yield lower prices at the pump. 
  Oil producers and traders with direct exposure to the commodity weren’t the only ones dragged down by the historic crash. The broader stock market suffered a hangover, with the Dow Jones industrial average sliding 2.4 percent and the S&P 500 tumbling 1.8 percent. They were led lower by a selloff in energy stocks, which shed 3.3 percent. But the entire sector's value is now eclipsed by each of the four biggest tech companies, according to Bespoke Investment Group:
  For the broader market, Frank Verrastro of the Center for Strategic and International Studies  told  Jacob Bogage and Tom Heath, “the concern is that the lack of demand shows we aren’t going to come out of this downturn like a V. It’s going to be a global recession.” 
  And Moody’s Investors Service warns the oil shock could contribute to credit stress on major financial institutions providing lending or insurance to the industry, as dirt-cheap oil makes it difficult for companies to service their debt and  could force  a wave of bankruptcies. 
  “Although the coronavirus and oil shocks will not lead to immediate and wholesale changes in the ratings of most regulated banks and insurers, the credit profiles of many will become increasingly vulnerable to the extent the economic shock broadens and lengthens relative to our baseline macroeconomic assumptions,” analysts with the ratings agency wrote in a Monday note. “The coronavirus outbreak as well as the oil price shock will have a direct negative impact on the asset quality of rated financial institutions.”
  Canadian oil companies already have started shutting down production.  “Shutting-in production is a very painful decision for an operator to make — often the economics support running a well at a loss for a certain period of time rather than shutting down the project completely. But with infrastructure constraints, this is no longer an option for many landlocked producers,” Rystad Energy Senior Oil Market Analyst Teodora Cowie tells Englund.
  U.S. oil producers may follow suit. “What will happen now will be even worse than a price collapse: a systemic failure that forces some U.S. producers to turn off the taps,” the Wall Street Journal’s Spencer Jakab  writes . “The U.S. contribution to the OPEC+ deal was something for nothing—promising an output cut that would be a result of market forces while big exporters such as Saudi Arabia and Russia consciously pumped less. But the collapse in fuel demand has been so rapid that the American producers Mr. Trump sought to help will be making a heftier contribution and bearing a lot more pain in the short run.”
  Pelosi was optimistic that an agreement is not far off:  “The White House and Congress on Monday tried to design another giant bailout package aimed at combating the coronavirus pandemic’s economic and health fallout, scrambling to resolve last-minute snags over loan access and testing,” Erica Werner  reports .
  “'We have I believe come to terms on the principles of the legislation, which is a good thing, but it’s always in the fine print,' House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) told CNN on Monday evening. ‘And so now we’re down to fine print, but I feel very optimistic and hopeful that we’ll come to a conclusion.’" 
  Democrats are pushing more money for testing:  They want a “'comprehensive national testing strategy,' Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) said in a tweet. The Democrats were seeking ‘free testing for all, and expanding reporting and contact tracing,’ Schumer said. But Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and other Trump administration officials were seeking a ‘state-driven approach and flexibility,’ according to a senior administration official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe the private talks.”
  “The federal government gave national hotel and restaurant chains millions of dollars in grants before the $349 billion program ran out of money Thursday, leading to a backlash that prompted one company to give the money back and a Republican senator to say that ‘millions of dollars are being wasted,’” Jonathan O'Connell  reports .
  Among those benefiting:
  Four big banks are being sued over their administration of the loans:  “Wells Fargo & Co., Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and U.S. Bancorp were sued by small businesses that accused the lenders of prioritizing large loans distributed as part of the virus rescue package, shutting out the smallest firms that sought money,” Bloomberg News's David McLaughlin, Mark Niquette and Olivia Rockeman  report .
  “The four banks processed applications for the largest loan amounts because they generated the highest fees, rather than processing them on a first-come-first-served basis as the government promised, according to lawsuits filed Sunday in federal court in Los Angeles. As a result, thousands of small businesses that were entitled to loans under the program… were left with nothing, the plaintiffs said.” 
  Two new ways to track the federal response . Here are a pair of just-launched tools allowing you to keep an eye on Washington's unprecedented multi-trillion-dollar intervention in the economy. 
  The plan could affect a wide-range of regulations:  “Senior White House and Trump administration officials are planning to launch a sweeping effort in the coming days to repeal or suspend federal regulations affecting businesses, with the expected executive action seen by advisers as a way to boost an economy facing its worst shock in generations, two people familiar with the internal planning said,” Jeff Stein and Robert Costa  report .
  “While the plan remains in flux, changes could affect environmental policy, labor policy, workplace safety and health care, among other areas. The White House is also likely to seek to make permanent some temporary regulations issued by agencies over the past few weeks to respond to the coronavirus pandemic.”
  Trump's push to reopen is failing to assuage many:  “A majority say it could be June or later before it will be safe for larger gatherings to take place again, according to a Washington Post-University of Maryland poll,” Scott Clement and Dan Balz  report .
  “Most Americans — 54 percent — give the president negative marks for his handling of the outbreak in this country and offer mixed reviews for the federal government as a whole. By contrast, 72 percent of Americans give positive ratings to the governors of their states for the way they have dealt with the crisis, with workers also rating their employers positively.”
  Almost one-fifth of the S&P 500 will report their earnings this week:  “Many of the companies reporting — including Delta Air Lines Inc.,    Coca-Cola Co.    and International Business Machines Corp.    — are logging results for the first three months of 2020. The results will show only some of the fallout from the coronavirus pandemic as the U.S. economy didn’t shut down widely until the quarter’s final few weeks,” the WSJ's  Allison Prang  reports .
  “Less than a tenth of the S&P 500 have reported results so far this earnings season, and profits have fallen almost 15 percent, according to FactSet. If that decline holds after other companies report their results, it would be the biggest year-over-year profit decline since the third quarter of 2009, when earnings dropped almost 16 percent, FactSet said. One company expected to benefit from the current stay-at-home culture is video-streaming company Netflix Inc., which reports its results [today].”
  From Charles Schwab chief investment strategist Liz Ann Sonders:
  Today: 
  Wednesday: 
  Thursday: 
  Friday: 
 