with Brent D. Griffiths 
  The Federal Reserve is projecting a much swifter economic recovery than the one it forecast back in June. But Fed Chair Jerome H. Powell is warning a still-fragile rebound could buckle without another infusion of relief spending from Congress.
  If there isn't additional support for those who have relied on emergency aid from Washington , “then that will start to show up in economic activity,” Powell  told  reporters after Fed officials wrapped up a two-day meeting.  “I think the real question is when and how much and what will be the contents.”  
  The Trump administration and congressional leaders continue struggling over those questions with no apparent progress.  
  In the first update to their outlook in three months,  monetary policymakers on Wednesday said they expect the jobless rate to fall to 7.6 percent by the end of this year on its way to a relatively healthy 4 percent by 2023.  And they project gross domestic product to fall 3.7 percent in the fourth quarter compared with the same period last year, a marked improvement over their last call of a 6.5 percent drop.
  Powell offered a downbeat spin on those numbers.  He suggested the gains the economy has already locked up represent the easiest repairs to the damage wrought by the  coronavirus  pandemic shutdowns. Sustaining the pace, therefore, will get much tougher. 
  “Overall activity remains well below its level before the pandemic, and the path ahead remains highly uncertain,” Powell said. The Fed is doing what it can with what it has, indicating it will keep interest rates near zero through 2023 and continue to expand its balance sheet. 
  There is the possibility, for example, the upcoming flu season, combined with a new wave of coronavirus infections, could hobble the recovery. And it’s not clear what effect the failure of lawmakers to deliver new support would mean for struggling households and businesses, as Rachel Siegel  notes .
  Powell is fond of saying the central bank has “lending powers, not spending powers.” But he treads carefully when nudging Congress do its part to keep the emergency relief flowing.  “I would just say there are still roughly 11 million people still out of work due to the pandemic,”  he said Wednesday. “And a good part of those people were working in industries that are likely to struggle. Those people may need additional support as they try to find their way through what will be a difficult time for them.”
  More from Powell:
  From Allianz chief economic adviser Mohamed El-Erian:
  President Trump threw a curveball into stalled talks by calling on congressional Republicans to embrace higher spending on an emergency package, including new stimulus checks to Americans.
  “ His Twitter post and subsequent comments at a news conference could reframe talks  that have stalled for more than a month, and put new pressure on leaders in both parties,” Erica Werner and Rachael Bade  report . “They come at a moment when House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) is facing a backlash from some House Democrats, including lawmakers in tough reelection races, over congressional inaction on new economic relief.”
  Trump expressed interest in a $1.5 trillion plan crafted by a bipartisan group of moderates that so far has been rejected by Republican and Democratic leadership as, respectively, too expensive and not generous enough. Meanwhile, Pelosi had her first phone conversation in weeks on the matter with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin.
  “ A growing number of House Democrats continued to expressed the desire for action on legislation  of some kind before Congress goes on recess early next month through the election. And Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) seized on Trump’s new position and suggested it validated their approach,” Werner and Bade report. 
  But in one sign Republicans feel limited urgency to come back to the table, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) balked anew at the bipartisan proposal’s price tag.
  The fizzle after the Fed meeting is heading into a full-on rout:  “Dow Jones Industrial Average, which earlier traded just below the flatline, fell 244 points. S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100 futures also traded in negative territory,” CNBC's Fred Imbert  reports .
  “Normally, the prospects of lower rates for a prolonged time period spur buying in equities. However, that was not the case on Wednesday. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq both closed lower and the Dow ended well off its session high. Big Tech dragged down the S&P 500 and Nasdaq, with Apple, Facebook and Microsoft all closing lower.”
  Snowflake more than doubles in debut, largest ever software IPO:  “The stock began trading at $245 per share and closed at $253.93. A day earlier, Snowflake priced shares at $120, higher than the $100 to $110 range it estimated on Monday, and a huge bump from the $75 to $85 range it proposed last week,” CNBC ’ s Jessica Bursztynsky  reports  of the cloud-based data storage company's public offering. 
  “Investors had anticipated a blockbuster opening for the company, which is generating over $500 million in annualized revenue and grew over 130 percent in the first half of 2020.”
  Steady Number of Unemployment Claims Points to Slowing Jobs Recovery (WSJ) 
  The former vice president has a deep bench. Wall Street has also drawn up a hypothetical list:  “The cast ranges from progressive favorite Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) to equitability economist Heather Boushey. Longtime Biden confidant Jared Bernstein is also thought to be a top contender for a role, while others speculate that Federal Reserve Governor Lael Brainard could be on the short list,” CNBC ’ s Thomas Franck  reports . Among other names mentioned for potential roles: Meg Whitman, former CEO of eBay and Hewlett Packard Enterprise; Morgan Stanley executive Tom Nides; and former Consumer Financial Protection Bureau director Richard Cordray. 
  Sheldon Adelson is plotting a spending spree.:  “Adelson, CEO of Las Vegas Sands, is looking to spend around $20 million to $50 million in a last-ditch effort to help Trump overcome Joe Biden, according to people familiar with the matter,” CNBC ’ s Brian Schwartz  reports .
  “Most of the money is expected to go toward the new pro-Trump super PAC, Preserve America. … Other organizations, including the Trump campaign, the Republican National Committee and groups helping Republicans in Congress, could also see some of Adelson’s money.” 
  Oracle might not have sealed things yet:  “Trump said he was ‘not going to be happy’ if the viral video app TikTok continues to be majority-owned by ByteDance, its Chinese parent company,” CNN ’ s Brian Fung  reports .
  “Trump said he expects to be briefed on the proposal [today]. ‘It has to be 100% as far as national security is concerned, and no, I'm not prepared to sign off on anything,’ the president said. ‘I have to see the deal.’”
  The backstory on the GOP ’ s tax plan:  “The Trump Administration promised the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 would pay for itself and boost the middle class. But in truth, the tax cuts funnelled hundreds of millions into the pockets of the rich and ballooned the national debt,” the Center for Public Integrity  teases  of its new podcast, “The Heist,” that will trace how the sweeping changes happened and what it says about Trump ’ s America.
  The Heist 
  Business Roundtable endorses market-based climate policy (Politico) 
  McDonald’s Travis Scott promotion is so popular, it’s causing Quarter Pounder shortages (CNBC) 
  Lawmakers are looking into possible conflicts of interests at the NLRB:  “The legal request comes after more than a year of attempts by the committee to acquire ethics related documentation from the National Labor Relations Board— the federal body charged with upholding workers’ rights to organize and raise safety concerns — on issues that involve an NLRB board member’s former law firm,” Eli Rosenberg  reports .
  “Committee chairman Rep. Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-Va.) said that the board’s ongoing refusal to provide the documents suggests that the board is covering up malfeasance, according to a letter from Scott to the panel to NLRB Chairman John Ring.”
  Today: 
 