with Brent D. Griffiths 
  Democrats are pledging to make life more difficult for the financial industry through higher taxes and stricter regulation. Yet the industry and those who work for it are directing more of their campaign contributions to the party than at any time since the Great Financial Crisis.
  Indeed,  for the first time since the 2008 campaign, the financial sector is giving a slight edge to Democrats, showering them with $222.4 million in political contributions , compared to $219.5 million to Republicans,  according to data  from the Center for Responsive Politics. The figures are current as of July 21.
  The data combines contributions by corporate political action committees, whose decisions are typically directed by top executives, and donations from employees' own pockets. The results, then, in part reflect the personal political preferences of those working in major urban centers that are trending increasingly blue.
  The get-tough approach starts at the top of the Democratic ticket:  Former vice president Joe Biden has proposed a slew of new strictures that would take a bite out of the industry’s bottom line.  They include the  creation  of a government-run banking service; a consumer-friendly  overhaul  of bankruptcy laws; reimposing  separations  between retail and investment banking; establishing a  federal credit agency  at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; and a  rollback  of Trump’s tax cuts that some analysts say would rattle the stock market.
  Not all corners of the industry are lining up behind Democrats. Commercial banks, for example, are still  directing  a majority of their contributions to Republicans. But so far this cycle, they are favoring the GOP by a narrower margin than they did in the 2016 election. Back then, the banks sent about two of three dollars to Republicans; now, they are steering about 58 percent of their contributions to the GOP, according to the center's figures.
  JPMorgan Chase employees, for example, have  given  the party 59 percent of the $2.1 million they have doled out this cycle, the most favorable margin for Democrats from the nation’s biggest bank since 2008 . Ditto for those at Citigroup, who have  sent  about 55 percent of their political checks to Democrats. Wells Fargo, meanwhile, is on track to set a record for the share of donations to the party, with the bank's workers  directing  58 percent of their contributions to Democrats so far. Representatives for the banks declined to comment.
  Those who punch the clock at more Wall Street-centric banks likewise are tilting more Democratic in their giving than they have in any election in more than a decade.  Goldman Sachs employees have  given  Democrats 63 percent of the $2.6 million they have forked over in contributions, the firm’s most Democratic-friendly split since they gave the party’s candidates 74 percent of their political money in 2008. And Morgan Stanley employees are also  supporting  Democrats with 63 percent of their donations, the bank’s widest margin in the party’s favor in any election dating back to 1990, according to the records from the center.
  The private-equity industry has  dedicated  54 percent of its $47 million in contributions to Democrats. And hedge fund employees have  directed  about 70 percent of the $27.8 million they have donated so far to the party.
  The top lines obscure a more mixed picture of the private-equity sector’s activity, the Wall Street Journal’s Chris Cummings  reports .  “Despite the Democratic tilt, many in the industry have thrown their support behind vulnerable Republican senators, hoping to keep Democrats from controlling both chambers of Congress,”  he writes.
  “The erosion of popular support for President Trump since the  coronavirus  pandemic began has increased the likelihood that Democrats could take control of both the White House and the Senate, while retaining a majority in the House,” Cummings continues. “Many who work in private equity prefer control of the government to remain divided as it would make major overhauls of their industry more difficult, say people who work with buyout firms on government policy.”
  He notes that employees “of New York-based Blackstone Group Inc., the world’s largest private-equity firm, have shelled out the most on the 2020 elections, spending $21.5 million, mostly in favor of Republican candidates and conservative groups,” citing the Center for Responsive Politics data. On the other hand, “Boston firm Bain Capital LP, co-founded by Sen. Mitt Romney [(R-Utah)], is second in employee spending at about $9.5 million, almost all of it dedicated to Democratic candidates and liberal groups.” 
  There's a $2 trillion gap between both parties as bipartisan talks on a coronavirus relief bill ramp up:  “All parties faced a tight deadline for a breakthrough as expanded jobless aid benefits are set to expire later this week,” Erica Werner, Jeff Stein and Seung Min Kim  report .
  “The prospects for a bipartisan deal remained far from certain as House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer met late [last night] with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows to begin formal negotiations. The White House officials described the talks as productive and said they would resume [today], but Democrats left the nearly two hour meeting describing the initial GOP offer as inadequate."
  And money for the FBI building near Trump's downtown Washington hotel: “ …  the GOP legislation contains a number of provisions not directly related to the coronavirus,  including $1.8 billion  for construction of a new FBI headquarters in Washington. President Trump has taken a personal interest in this project, but White House officials have not stipulated why they believe the language needed to be inserted in the coronavirus bill. Critics have alleged Trump is trying to keep the FBI building at its current location, which is diagonal from a Trump hotel property in downtown D.C.” 
  What's in it at a glance ,  per  Jeff, Laura Meckler and Tony Romm : 
  More on the GOP's plan for pandemic unemployment assistance:  “ The proposal, spearheaded by Senate Finance Chair Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa), calls for giving states until October to switch over to the new system in which workers are paid 70 percent of their prior earnings. Until that point, the federal government would provide a $200-per-week benefit for each jobless worker, down from the $600 it is currently providing. States ‘unable’ to provide the more targeted form of benefit by Oct. 5 can ask the Labor Department for a waiver to continue the flat payment for two months, the proposal states.” 
  Three large companies that received millions have not retained most of their staff:  “The Fairmont Grand Del Mar in San Diego, a luxury hotel owned by a group led by Richard Blum, a private equity chief and the husband of Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), received $6.4 million from the program. The hotel has been closed and most of its hundreds of workers are unemployed and unpaid, union officials said. To maintain their health insurance, workers send money back to the company,” Peter Whoriskey  reports .
  “A large group of restaurant companies operating under the umbrella of Orlando-based Earl Enterprises — including Planet Hollywood International, Bertucci’s and Buca di Beppo — similarly received loans in amounts ranging from $26 million to $54 million, according to the federal data, but in the places most affected by the pandemic, the restaurants employ only limited crews. The rest of the staff is unemployed and unpaid, employees said.  And the Omni Hotels & Resorts, owned by Texas billionaire Robert Rowling, were approved for multiple loans from the program — one for each of 15 hotels — totaling $30 million to $71 million. But seven remain closed, and at those, most workers are on unpaid furloughs, union officials said.” 
  A growing number of indicators shows the recovery is stalling:  “When the Federal Reserve meets this week, investors and policymakers alike will pay close attention to how Fed Chair Jerome H. Powell characterizes the state of the economy — and the extent to which he flags the worsening pandemic and chaos over the next round of stimulus as risks to the recovery,” Rachel Siegel  reports  this morning.
  “Nobody expects that the Federal Reserve will exercise its main policy tool and change interest rates, which are expected to remain at zero. However, this typical Fed meeting comes as a surge of coronavirus cases has forced states to dial back their reopening plans… That puts particular focus on how explicit Powell will be about the fate of the economy. When the Fed concludes two days of policy meetings Wednesday, he will appear at a virtual news conference at 2:30 p.m."
  It's one of the ways the former VP would gut Trump's tax law:  “On top of higher tax rates, [Biden] would impose a 15% minimum tax on profits reported to investors, a move that would limit companies’ use of popular tax breaks. That minimum tax would raise $400 billion over a decade by the campaign’s estimate, and $166 billion according to the Tax Policy Center,” the WSJ's Richard Rubin  reports .
  “But critics say [Biden’s] proposal could be counterproductive, partly because it would discourage companies from using tax breaks Congress created to promote investment in some of the very things the former vice president is trying to promote, such as renewable energy, low-income housing and manufacturing.”    
  The brawl over 5G is providing an opening for the South Korean giant:  “The geopolitical squabbling gives Samsung, the industry’s No. 4 player, a major chance to muscle into a telecom-equipment market it considers a pillar for future growth. Though deep-pocketed, Samsung has been a fringe networks player for decades, mostly servicing its home market,” the WSJ's Elizabeth Koh  reports .
  “Even before the U.K. reversed course this month on its approach to Huawei, Samsung already had made some inroads … In the 5G realm, the South Korean firm controls roughly a seventh of the market where Huawei enjoys more than twice that, according to market research firm Dell’Oro Group."
  Tech leads the way as investors await another big earnings week:  “The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 114.88 points, or 0.4 percent, to close at 26,584.77. The S&P 500 closed 0.7 percent higher at 3,239.41 and the Nasdaq Composite outperformed, climbing 1.7 percent to 10,536.27,” CNBC's Fred Imbert and Eustance Huang  report .
  “Apple climbed 2.3 percent. Amazon advanced 1.5 percent after several analysts raised their price targets on the e-commerce giant. Other tech-related stocks, including Facebook, Netflix and Alphabet, also traded higher. Market sentiment was also boosted after the U.S. government allocated an additional $472 million towards Moderna’s coronavirus vaccine research. The stock jumped 9.2 percent.” (Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos owns The Washington Post.)
  Regulators are looking at the sportswear brand's accounting:  “Last year, the company said it was cooperating with federal investigators in connection with a probe about whether it shifted sales from quarter to quarter to meet objectives,” Reuters's Aishwarya Venugopal  reports .
  “While a Wells notice does not necessarily mean the recipients have violated any law, the SEC issues the letter to firms when it is planning to bring an enforcement action against them.”
  HSBC aims to double number of senior black staff by 2025:  “HSBC aims to double the number of Black staff in senior roles by 2025, Chief Executive Noel Quinn said in an internal memo, as the bank attempts to take action against discrimination and create opportunities for advancement in the wake of the Black Lives Matter movement," Reuters's Sinead Cruise  reports .
  Walgreens CEO Stefano Pessina to step down:  “The current executive chairman, former McDonald’s CEO Jim Skinner, will remain on the board after Pessina takes over,” the Associated Press  reports . “The company announced no time frame Monday in finding a successor to Pessina.”
  It may take only two more Republicans to sink her nomination:  “Collins (R-Maine) joined [Romney] in opposing Shelton’s nomination, which is slated to go for a vote before the full Senate. Collins and Romney alone cannot derail Shelton’s advancement, but the margin is getting thinner for Shelton, who is known for her outspoken criticism of the Fed and her advocacy for a return to the gold standard,” Rachel Siegel  reports .
  “If the Senate’s Democrats and independents all vote against Shelton’s nomination, her confirmation could be doomed if she loses the support of four Republicans.”
  Lawmakers are preparing to take on a $5 trillion slice of the U.S. economy:  “On Wednesday, the industry’s four most powerful chief executives are set to appear, swear an oath and submit to a grilling from House lawmakers who have been probing the Web’s most recognizable names to determine whether they have become too big and powerful," Tony Romm  reports .
  "The congressional inquiry has been more than a year in the making. Lawmakers have amassed 1.3 million documents, conducted hundreds of hours of interviews and held five other hearings featuring the industry’s friends and foes. Led by Rep. David N. Cicilline (D-R.I.), the lawmakers plan to produce a report in coming months that some party leaders expect will find the industry has skirted federal competition laws because the protections haven’t kept pace with the digital age.
  The Commerce secretary was admitted for non-covid related reasons:  “Ross ‘is doing well and resting at home,’ the department said in a statement. ‘We continue to anticipate a quick recovery. He is engaged and involved, business as usual at the Department of Commerce,’” CNBC's Kevin Breuninger  reports .
  “The 82-year-old Commerce secretary had been working from his home in Palm Beach, Florida, since at least late March. It is unclear what health complications required Ross to be hospitalized.”
  Millions of renters are facing evictions as bans on them expire.  CNBC's Annie Nova:  “ On Friday, the federal moratorium on evictions in properties with federally backed mortgages and for tenants who receive government-assisted housing expired. The Urban Institute estimated that provision covered nearly 30% of the country’s rental units… And most of the statewide eviction moratoriums are winding down. The proceedings have resumed in more than 30 states. The moratorium in Hawaii and Illinois end this week, and in August, evictions will pick up in New York and Nevada."
  Here, via CNBC, is a state-by-state look at the situation:
  Today: 
  Wednesday: 
  Thursday: 
  Friday: 
 