with Brent D. Griffiths
  THE TICKER 
  Washington has been banging together all of its recession-fighting pots and pans, but it can’t shake Wall Street out of its  coronavirus -induced nightmare. 
  But now the Trump administration is preparing its boldest move yet, pitching an enormous $850 billion plan to avert economic catastroph e, my colleagues Erica Werner and and Jeff Stein  are reporting  this morning. The proposal, pricier than both the stimulus package and the Wall Street bailout that followed the financial crisis, “would be mostly devoted to flooding the economy with cash, through a payroll tax cut or other mechanism," two officials familiar with it tell Erica and Jeff.
  Some $50 billion of it would be set aside to help the airline industry , they report. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, who is set to present the details to Senate Republicans later today, told some on Monday he wants the package approved by the end of the week.
  The White House intervention comes after the stock market on Monday endured one of its worst days ever , an increasingly common occurrence this month as spooked investors see no bottom to the growing economic crisis.
  The Dow Jones industrial average collapsed by 13 percent, shedding nearly 3,000 points for its biggest-ever point loss. The S&P 500 tanked 12 percent, its new worst performance since Black Monday in 1987 , and the Nasdaq lost 12.3 percent. 
  Volatility  spiked  to a new record high, overtaking the previous record set in October 2008 during the global financial crisis. And Monday's trading session was the third in a row to see a swing of more than 9 percent, the first time  that's happened  since the 1929 stock market crash. 
  The S&P 500 now is down 30 percent from an all-time peak it hit less than a month ago. Another 5 percent drop would erase all of its gains since President Trump’s inauguration.  “This is unlike anything we’ve ever seen,”  Jeffrey Kleintop, chief global investment strategist at Charles Schwab,  tells  my colleagues Taylor Telford and Tom Heath.
  Stock futures are  pointing  to a bounce at the open in what promises to be another turbulent trading day.  
  The latest market bloodletting followed the Federal Reserve's  shock-and-awe-scale intervention  aimed in part at stemming the panic, and as Congress and the Trump administration signaled major fiscal help is on the way.
  But Trump —  displaying  a newly grave tone in a news conference just before the market closed — appeared to add momentum to the sell-off by warning the crisis might not ebb until July or August. And he acknowledged the economy may be heading into a recession . 
  Investors had already been dumping stocks in the wake of the Fed’s second emergency rate cut in the past month, announced Sunday, which returned the benchmark interest rate to zero. The central bank coupled that move with restarting its post-financial crisis bond-buying program, a plan to purchase $700 billion of government and mortgage-backed debt to smooth financial market operations.
  Investors and portfolio managers have complained for weeks the Fed alone can’t mitigate a shock grinding activity to a nearly complete stop.  Instead, they say, this economic Armageddon requires a fiscal response.  
  And Washington now seems prepared to deliver one. It would be the third such relief effort from Congress — after an $8.3 billion package to shore up public-health needs and another, still awaiting Senate approval, to expand sick leave, food assistance and unemployment insurance.
  One source described the third installment to Jeff as a “monster”: 
  From CNN's John Harwood:
  “Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) proposed a $750 billion package to address everything from hospital capacity and loan forbearance to treatment affordability and remote learning,” Jeff, Erica Werner, Paul Kane and Seung Min Kim  reported .
  It is not yet clear, however, what measures can earn bipartisan backing. “Industries  including airlines , cruise lines and casinos have been seeking Congress’s help,” they report. And  one idea to send $1,000 to every American adult to help them pay bills and keep money flowing through the economy appeared to be gathering some support from both parties . 
  Sen. Mitt Romney (R-Utah) is spearheading the effort, an echo of the universal basic income proposal that drove Andrew Yang’s unlikely bid for the Democratic presidential nomination. And it has  drawn support  from Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.). 
  Larry Kudlow, Trump's top economic adviser,  pegged  at $400 billion the amount of stimulus in the second relief package now awaiting Senate approval.
  The urgency for action is building as fears deepen of a looming economic disaster. “When the world’s largest economy begins to shut down — closing schools, sports arenas and entire categories of businesses, and sending millions of American workers home — it’s no longer a question of whether a recession may be coming,” The Los Angeles Times’s Don Lee  writes . “The only questions now are: How soon, how deep and how can the government best respond?”
  Economists with the UCLA Anderson Forecast revised earlier estimates to project the economy has already entered a recession — a view shared by a growing number of forecasters. 
  From the New York Times's Alan Rappeport: 
  Former Trump administration economist Kevin Hassett  told  CNN the U.S. could lose up to 1 million jobs this month . "You're looking at one of the biggest negative job numbers we've ever seen," he said.  And he put the odds of a global recession at “close to 100 percent.”
  One of the first readings of how the coronavirus shock is colliding with the real economy offered a bracing preview of what’s coming.  The New York Fed’s monthly manufacturing survey marked the biggest one-month drop in its history.  It “showed a drop in activity to -21.5 from 12.9 in February,”  per  Barron’s Lisa Beilfuss.
  The message, according to Pantheon Macroeconomics chief economist Ian Shepherdson, “is that manufacturing has plunged headlong into deep recession… We now guesstimate that second quarter GDP will drop at a 10% annualized rate, after a 2% fall in Q1.”
  Coronavirus response in the United States: 
  More market fallout: 
  Corporate fallout: 
  International fallout: 
  —  Lenders deluged with refinance requests:  “Homeowners are rushing to refinance their mortgages thanks to big falls in interest rates prompted by fears of the spreading coronavirus. Some lenders are having trouble keeping up with the red-hot demand,” the Wall Street Journal's Orla McCaffrey, Julia Carpenter and Ben Eisen  report .
  “Weekly refinancing applications recently hit their highest level in nearly 11 years, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association. The average rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage, the most popular home loan in the U.S., is close to its lowest level in nearly 50 years of record-keeping, hitting 3.36 percent last week. Falling rates are generally considered good news for the mortgage market. But the current jump in refinancing demand presents a dilemma for some lenders, which must balance their desire for volume with their capacity to process applications." 
  Wells Fargo Claws Back $15 Million of Former CEO’s Pay (WSJ) 
  France Fines Apple $1.2 Billion for Antitrust Issues (NYT) 
  Airlines Won't Get Something For Nothing (Bloomberg Opinion's Chris Bryant) 
  WSJ News Exclusive | CFTC to Give Work-From-Home Relief to Traders (WSJ) 
  A closer look at bull and bear markets since 1929:
  Most S&P 500 companies are sending workers home, and more than 40 percent of them have sent at least half their workforce home:
  No surprise here, but restaurant-going has fallen off a cliff. Via Bloomberg's Anne Cronin: 
  Note: The House is on recess, but the Senate is in session.
  Today: 
  Wednesday: 
  Thursday: 
  Friday: 
 