with Paulina Firozi
  We're covering the ins and outs of coronavirus – and policymakers' responses to it. Sign up to get  The Health 202  in your inbox. 
  THE PROGNOSIS 
  A stark contrast in the coronavirus mortality rates in South Korea and Iran show how critical a government's response can be in determining whether the disease is stymied or spread.  
  Public health experts say they want to ensure the U.S. outcome turns out more like the former.  
  “Will we take the tough actions to mitigate spread or will we let this spread like the flu?” Scott Gottlieb, former head of the Food and Drug Administration, wrote me. “I think we will end up somewhere in between. Not helpless like Iran but not as aggressive and swift as South Korea.”
  South Korea has managed to dramatically arrest the spread.  It's conducting  more tests per person  than any other country in the world, with about 15,000 people getting tested every day. Four companies  are providing  test kits to 118 facilities where people can get tested free. The government has  set up  dozens of drive-through centers, where medical workers dressed in face masks and protective clothing swab people’s mouth and throat.
  “South Korea’s most effective weapon against the virus has been to rapidly expand testing…210,000 South Koreans have been tested since Jan. 3,” The Washington Post’s  Josh Rogin writes . 
  South Korean officials have done  two other  things: They've particularly targeted the northern city of Daegu, where spreading infections within a large church congregation made it the center of the outbreak. 
  And, they've undergone aggressive efforts to inform the public about how to respond and where the infection is spreading.  South Koreans regularly get cell phone alerts notifying them of new cases near them. The government has shuttered schools and urged the cancellation of all mass gatherings. Government websites are regularly updated with information about testing.
  By the numbers: The country has reported 7,800 cases but just 66 deaths – a relatively low mortality rate under 1 percent.  And now its daily growth in new cases appears to be  slowing,  with  fewer than 200  new cases reported daily over the past few days.
  But it’s a different story in Iran, a country with 80 million people where cases are surging and several top officials — including two dozen members of parliament and a vice president —  have been infected . 
  As neighboring countries canceled flights and alerted medical personnel, Iranian officials  said little  in public about the virus. The government didn’t even mention the disease’s arrival in the country until Feb. 19, when officials said two people had already died. The following week it became evident that a disproportionate number of officials were infected, my Post colleagues  Erin Cunningham and Dalton Bennett reported. 
  The country’s Health Ministry claims that about 10,000 have been infected and 429 have died. But mass graves — confirmed by videos, satellite images and other open-source data from the cemetery — could mean Iran has suffered more deaths than its government has let on.  
  Satellite images show the excavation of a new section of a graveyard in the city of Qom began as early as Feb. 21 — two days after Iran declared its first coronavirus cases. By the end of the month, two long trenches were visible at the site from space,  Erin and Dalton report. 
  “A senior imagery analyst at Maxar Technologies in Colorado said the size of the trenches and the speed with which they were excavated together mark a clear departure from past burial practices involving individual and family plots at the site,” my colleagues write. “In addition to satellite imagery, videos posted on social media from the cemetery show the extended rows of graves at Behesht-e Masoumeh and say they are meant for coronavirus victims.”
  Meanwhile, the U.S. continues to lag far behind other countries in testing for the virus.  Only about 11,000 people have been tested so far, according to figures shared with members of Congress. And nationwide capacity to process the test kits being distributed is at 20,000 people per day, per statistics compiled by the American Enterprise Institute.
  The delay in testing has exploded into a major political issue, with lawmakers of both parties angrily demanding more tests for Americans even as Trump has insisted problems that have hindered capacity are being addressed,  The Post's  Mike DeBonis, Erica Werner and Seung Min Kim report. 
  “The system is not geared toward what we need right now, what you are asking for,” Anthony S. Fauci, an immunologist and the head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases at the National Institutes of Health, told lawmakers. “That is a failing. Let’s admit it.”
  Yet Trump is downplaying the situation. He said from the White House that “over the next few days, they’re going to have four million tests out.”
  “Frankly, the testing has been going very smooth,” he said. “If you go to the right agency, if you go to the right area, you get the test.”
  East Asia historian Nick Kapur:
  The Twitterverse is using the hashtag #flattenthecurve to describe how people can stop the virus's spread quickly:
  — Trump has left open the possibility that travel restrictions could be enacted within the United States if necessary.  When asked whether travel restrictions in states such as Washington and California had been discussed, the president said they had not been but left open the possibility that such actions could be taken.
  “Is it a possibility?” he said. “Yes. If somebody gets a little bit out of control, if an area gets too hot. You see what they are doing in New Rochelle, which is good, frankly. It’s the right thing.”
  – The president may have been exposed to the coronavirus while meeting with Fabio Wajngarten, the press secretary for Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro.  Wajngarten posted an image of himself standing with Trump and Vice President Pence at Mar-a-Lago over the weekend.
  Trump told the press he's “not concerned at all.” “We did nothing very unusual; we sat next to each other for a period of time,” Trump said, referring to Bolsonaro.
  — The Trump administration isn’t loosening Medicaid rules so they can more freely respond to the crisis by expanding medical services,  LA Times's  Noam Levey reports. 
  “In previous emergencies, including the 9/11 terrorist attacks, Hurricane Katrina and the H1N1 flu outbreak, both Republican and Democratic administrations loosened Medicaid rules to empower states to meet surging needs,” Noam writes. “But months into the current global disease outbreak, the White House and senior federal health officials haven’t taken the necessary steps to give states simple pathways to fully leverage the mammoth safety net program to prevent a wider epidemic.”
  It's partly because of the president's reluctance to declare a national emergency, something Democrats and health provider groups are urging him to do.   
  The major health provider associations have asked him to declare the outbreak a disaster or emergency under the National Emergencies Act, a step beyond the public health emergency the administration declared in January. 
  “This step is necessary to provide … Azar the authority to take critical actions, such as providing Section 1135 waivers, to ensure that health care services and sufficient health care items are available to respond to the COVID-19 outbreak,” the American Medical Association, the American Hospital Association and the American Nurses Association wrote in a letter to Vice President Pence.
  Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.):
  America is shutting down, folks.  At this point, it's nearly impossible to keep pace with everything being cancelled or postponed. Some of the more notable developments, some via  The Post's live blog :
  The Hill's Peter Sullivan:
  — The health insurers association clarified yesterday that its members haven't agreed to waive out-of-pocket costs for coronavirus treatment — despite the misleading promise Trump made In his  prime-time speech. 
  “A broad swath of the nation’s private health insurers has agreed to waive the charges for a  coronavirus  test for their members,” The Post's  Amy Goldstein explains.  “But they have not committed to cover the cost of care for those sickened by the virus. … And while there is no specific treatment for the rapidly spreading infections, insurers have not expanded coverage for anyone, including the more seriously ill who need hospitalization.”
  — Speaking of Trump's Oval Office address, it did the opposite of reassuring many Americans,  The Post's  Dan Balz writes. 
  “From the misstatements to the omissions to his labored demeanor, the president sent a message that shook financial markets, disrupted relations with European allies, confused his many viewers and undermined the most precious commodity of any president, his credibility,” Dan writes. 
  “With the  stock markets plunging  into bear territory, the health-care system struggling to keep pace with the spreading virus and Americans wondering what’s next, Trump is dealing unsteadily with the greatest crisis of his presidency."
  (Here's a  fact-check  on Trump's address, from Glenn Kessler and Salvador Rizzo.)
  Some more coronavirus reads: 
  AHH: Trump administration officials and congressional Democrats have neared an agreement on an initial economic relief package in the wake of coronavirus.  House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin exchanged multiple intense communications, and Pelosi told reporters she expected a Friday vote “one way or another” to approve a package set to amount to several tens of billions of dollars. 
  “We’ve resolved most of our differences, and those we haven’t we’ll continue to have a conversation because there will obviously be other bills,” Pelosi said. 
  Lawmakers on both sides of the aisle wanted to deliver the measure before the congressional recess set for next week – although now the Senate will be coming in after Majority Leader Mitch McConnell cancelled recess for his chamber. The White House's approval of the package is expected today.  
  “The legislation will include measures to boost paid family leave and unemployment insurance, ensure free coronavirus testing, and strengthen nutritional aid such as food stamps. The emerging agreement builds upon a bill House Democrats released late Wednesday that included a number of provisions Republicans opposed, setting off hours of frenzied negotiations on Capitol Hill to reach bipartisan consensus,”  Mike, Erica and Jeff Stein report . 
  “A final hang-up was over a paid family and medical leave provision, with Republicans pushing to structure it in a way that it could be implemented quickly and avoid undue burdens on employers.”
  — “The near-deal Thursday evening represented a dramatic turnaround from the state of play in the morning, when the White House and congressional Republicans panned House Democrats’ bill and suggested that chances for a quick deal were remote,”  our colleagues write. “But as the hours progressed and the scale of the crisis mounted, it became clear there was no appetite among lawmakers to leave Washington for a week or more without acting.” 
  OOF: Joe Biden and Bernie Sanders forcefully criticized Trump, in their own remarks about the coronavirus crisis.  
  “Typically, an incumbent president running for reelection might step into a moment of crisis to harness the power and megaphone of the office to demonstrate strong leadership,” our colleagues  Matt Viser and Jenna Johnson report . "But Trump’s response gave Biden, Sanders and other Democrats a chance Thursday to turn those conventions upside down, asking voters to envision them steering the country through troubled waters.”
  Biden chided the administration for a “failure on testing … it’s a failure of planning, leadership and execution," releasing his own proposal that calls for free and widely available testing and emergency paid leave for sick Americans. 
  Biden also slammed the president’s description of the coronavirus as a “foreign” virus. 
  “Downplaying it, being overly dismissive, or spreading misinformation is only going to hurt us and further advantage the spread of the disease,” Biden said. “But neither should we panic or fall back on xenophobia. Labeling COVID-19 a foreign virus does not displace accountability for the misjudgments that have been taken thus far by the Trump administration.” 
  Trump shot back in a tweet late last night:
  — Sanders also offered a list of policy proposals for addressing the outbreak, including   emergency funding for paid family and medical leave.  He urged lawmakers to convene an “emergency bipartisan authority of experts” to help lead the government response.
  “Unfortunately, in this time of international crisis, the current administration is largely incompetent, and its incompetence and recklessness has threatened the lives of many people.” Sanders said at his Burlington, Vt., news conference. 
  He reiterated his push for universal health care, warning about the risks of not covering all Americans. 
  “While we work to pass a Medicare-for-all single-payer system, the United States government today must it make it clear that in the midst of this emergency, everyone in our country, regardless of income or where they live, must be able to get all of the health care they need without cost,” Sanders said.
  OUCH: The outbreak has already had an effect on the 2020 Democratic presidential primary . Biden campaign staffers will work remotely as of Saturday, according to a memo  obtained  by our Post colleagues. He also announced he would replace campaign rallies with virtual town halls. Sanders joined Biden in telling staff to work from home and said the campaign will move to “digital formats and outreach wherever possible.” 
  — Democratic National Committee chairman Tom Perez said in an  interview  with Axios that he's not planning to cancel the party’s July nominating convention in Milwaukee or replace it with an online event. 
  — The Democratic debate scheduled for this Sunday has been moved to the District of Columbia from Arizona.  “Out of an abundance of caution and in order to reduce cross-country travel, all parties have decided that the best path forward is to hold Sunday's debate at CNN's studio in Washington, D.C., with no live audience,” DNC communications director Xochitl Hinojosa said in a  statement .
  — And here are a few more good reads: 
  During a pandemic, Isaac Newton had to work from home, too. He used the time wisely. (Gillian Brockell) 
  Congress Approves Boost In Food Aid For Seniors But Funding Falls Short Of Growing Need (Kaiser Health News ) 
  House committee advances medical marijuana bills for veterans (The Hill ) 
  Two dead, four hospitalized after receiving OpenBiome stool transplants (Stat) 
  Willow Smith turned her anxiety into performance art that gained a million views because that’s where we are now (Helena Andrews-Dyer) 
  Female senators in Utah walk out as abortion bill passes (Associated Press) 
 