Americans are racing to cut vacations short and re-book flights home this weekend as Europe continues to lock down towns and cities amid the spread of  .
  The CDC said Sunday that all events of 50 people or more should be canceled for the next eight weeks, guidance that advocates for people to engage in "social distancing" through early May.
  New York City announced it would close public schools, and many cities around the country ordered bars and restaurants closed, with some even issuing curfews, to encourage social distancing. Meantime, brick-and-mortar retailers began shutting down stores.
  Stock futures plunged Sunday night, despite unprecedented emergency action from the Federal Reserve, which announced a rate cut.
  The United States has surpassed 3,000 confirmed cases of the coronavirus, and the death toll climbed to at least 61, with 25 of the deaths associated with the Life Care Center in Kirkland, Washington.
  
  
  
  Isobel van Hagen 
  The Danish government announced a new agreement on Sunday that would cover up to 75 percent of workers’ wages for those whose jobs are threatened by the virus outbreak.
  At a press conference, Danish Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen said the initiative will initially stretch retroactively from March 9 and will last until June 9. 
  Frederiksen also called on companies to send home staff, but to avoid firing people as a reduction measure. 
  Isobel van Hagen  and Matteo Moschella 
  , night 1.  Even after Sánchez’s announcement of the lockdown of  , people have not forgotten to applaude medical staff from their balconies.             
  Despite the announcement of the lockdown of Spain “people have not forgotten to applaud medical staff from their balconies," according to Twitter user @GiedreP who filmed a round of applause for health care workers in Madrid on Saturday night.
  Bursts of applause are appearing on social media across Spain and also in other European countries, such as  , as housebound people look for ways to show their appreciation.
  In a TV address Saturday, Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez detailed the lockdown measures —   — as part of a two-week state of emergency to fight the sharp rise in infections. Sanchez's wife Begona Gomez tested positive for the virus on Saturday.
  Isobel van Hagen 
  Hundreds of scientists have warned the U.K. government that its   is “risking many more lives than necessary,” in an   on Saturday night.
  More than 300 academics living and working in the U.K. called for immediate measures to restrict the spread of Covid-19, criticizing the U.K.’s strategy of delaying widespread restrictions, as seen in other European countries, in a bid to achieve "herd immunity." They argued that this would put the National Health Service under even more stress as the number of infections grows throughout Europe.
  Health Secretary Matt Hancock however told the BBC's Andrew Marr Show on Sunday morning that herd immunity was not part of the government's strategy and that the immediate priority was the preservation of life.
  NBC News
  Isobel van Hagen 
  American Airlines said it will start a phased suspension of nearly all long-haul international flights starting Monday, due to reduced demand and   from the outbreak.
  Between March 16 and May 6, the company will reduce its international capacity by 75 percent on a "year over year basis," it said   Saturday.
  The airline also anticipates its domestic capacity in April will be reduced by 20 percent compared to last year. It also projected it will be reduced by 30 percent in May.
  Reuters
  Mexico has warned that the coronavirus outbreak could last all year as it rolled out tougher measures to contain the spread.
  The education ministry said it would extend the Easter break for some 33 million students, doubling the length of their vacation. Meanwhile, the health ministry recommended canceling gatherings with 5,000 people or more.
  “We’re preparing for an epidemic that could last all year,” Deputy Health Minister Hugo Lopez-Gatell told a news conference Saturday.
  Mexico’s confirmed coronavirus infections had risen to 41 on Saturday up from 26 a day earlier, the government said. It has not reported any fatalities from the virus.
  Stella Kim
  The president of South Korea declared the city of Daegu a special disaster zone on Sunday, according to a presidential spokesperson.
  While South Korea has recently reported a downward trend in new cases, Daegu accounts for a majority of cases in the country  .
  South Korea reported 76 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, bringing the country’s total to 8,162 with 75 total deaths, the Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said. Sunday's numbers are in line trend of falling cases, which are down from the 107 recorded on Saturday.
  NBC News
  Alex Shi and Salina Lee
  China tightened checks on international travelers arriving at Beijing airport on Sunday, after the number of imported new coronavirus infections surpassed locally transmitted cases for a second day in a row.
  The government announced that all international arrivals at will be sent to special facilities for 14 days of monitoring. People with certain special needs will be allowed to return to their homes for self-quarantine  only after strict evaluation, they said.
  Mainland China reported 20 new cases of infections on March 14 — up from 11 cases a day earlier — data from by the National Health Commission showed on Sunday. Of those, 16 were internationally imported, it said.
  Claudio Lavanga and Lidia Sirna
  The Vatican said on Sunday that all papal Easter services will be held “without the physical presence of the faithful,” due to the public health emergency.
  Also, Sunday blessings will be held via internet live streaming on the official Vatican News website until April 12.
  “In this Sunday of Lent, we pray all together for the sick and the people who are suffering. Today, I would like to say a special prayer for all the people who are ensuring the functioning of the society: pharmacies, supermarkets, transports, police officers,” Pope Francis said during Sunday's mass. 
 