California has declared an emergency over the coronavirus outbreak, as   that has been linked to two cases of the illness in the state.
  The first death in California related to coronavirus was confirmed Wednesday, while another fatality in Washington brought that state's death toll to 10.
  Congressional leaders have agreed on   to help fight the coronavirus that is headed to the House.
  The virus is now spreading more rapidly outside China, where the epidemic started, with mainland China recording just 119 new confirmed cases while hundreds of cases were reported globally.
  South Korea alone recorded an additional 516 cases of coronavirus Wednesday, bringing the total to 5,328 confirmed cases, the largest outbreak outside of mainland China.
  Governments around the world are introducing a range of measures to stop the spread of the disease. In Italy, where there have been more than 2,000 cases, all schools and colleges are shut for 10 days.
  
  
  
  Adam Edelman
  President Trump, responding to questions from reporters Monday about whether it was safe to hold large political rallies amid the spread of the virus, said: “I think it’s very safe.”
  He said he would use a meeting later in the day between his administration’s coronavirus task force and pharmaceutical industry leaders to ask those executives about the possibility of accelerating the production of a coronavirus vaccine.
  “I think it’s very safe," President Trump says when asked if it is safe to hold a campaign rally amid concerns about the spread of coronavirus.  
  “This meeting was set up before. That was about drug pricing,” he said during an Oval Office meeting with the president of Colombia. “Now we're going to make another subject … the vaccine.”
  Asked by a reporter if it might be possible to speed up development vaccine development, Trump replied, “That’s what we're going to find out.”
  Ann-Kathrin Pohlers and Charlene Gubash
   the country's first case Monday: a 40-year-old Tunisian national who had recently returned from Italy.
  Qatar's main news agency, meanwhile, announced four new cases — bringing the nationwide total to seven.
  Jason Abbruzzese
  Sen. Elizabeth Warren released   to address the health and economic threats of the new coronavirus. She had previously released a plan to counter the virus' health effects and a spending bill in the Senate.
  The plan released Monday includes making sure that all Americans, including the uninsured, can get free coronavirus care, including any forthcoming vaccine. It creates an emergency paid leave program for people to take time off to get care. It includes a $400 billion fiscal stimulus package to counter the potential economic impact of the spreading virus.
  Warren remains in the race for the Democratic presidential nomination, though she trails well behind Sen. Bernie Sanders and former Vice President Joe Biden.
  I've been worried that our economy is heading towards another crash—and coronavirus is already a serious economic threat. I've got a plan to address the economic impact, and I'm calling on Congress to act immediately.  
  Daniel Arkin
  TPM, a trade conference for the cargo shipping industry that was set to open Sunday in Long Beach, California, has been canceled amid concerns about the outbreak, the event's sponsors announced Monday. The organizers had expected upwards of 2,000 participants.
  While we currently do not have any confirmed cases of coronavirus in Louisiana, I convened a Unified Command Group Meeting this morning and created the COVID-19 Task Force comprised of key state and federal officials.      
  Yuliya Talmazan
  Data from NASA's pollution monitoring satellites shows significant decreases over China in the concentration of nitrogen dioxide, a gas that contributes to air pollution — a change that's "at least partly related to the economic slowdown following the outbreak of coronavirus," the space agency's said. 
  In an effort to curb a growing epidemic, the Chinese government put several major cities  and told millions of its factory workers to stay home to limit the spread of the virus, slowing down production. 
  “This is the first time I have seen such a dramatic drop-off over such a wide area for a specific event,” said Fei Liu, an air quality researcher at NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center. 
  Tatyana Chistikova
  Russia's first coronavirus patient has been diagnosed in Moscow, according to the Federal Welfare Service. The patient is a Russian citizen who had been in Italy and returned to Moscow on Feb. 23.
  Daniel Arkin
  New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo urged people across the state to "relax," saying at a news conference Monday morning that "it's deep breath time."
  "Excuse our arrogance as New Yorkers," Cuomo said. "We think we have the best health care system on the planet right here in New York. ... We don't even think it's going to be as bad as it was in other countries."
  He provided some details on the state's first confirmed case: a Manhattan woman who contracted the virus while traveling in Iran. Cuomo said she is a 39-year-old health care worker who got back to New York on Tuesday and didn't take any public transportation upon her return.
  He said that state officials don't believe she was contagious on the plane, and that she took a private car from the airport to her residence, where she is now isolated. He added that officials plan to contact other passengers on the flight and the driver of the car as a precaution.
  The news conference is expected to start at 9:45 a.m. ET. Stay tuned for live coverage.
 