The United States is in the middle of the biggest economic and health emergency since perhaps the Civil War. This is the exactly the moment when you would ordinarily hope a president was starting his fourth year. By this point in the term, any competent president would have presumably sorted out who was doing a good job and who was not, and crafted a veteran team adept at running the executive branch of the federal government.
  That makes the Trump administration all the more striking. We already know about the  abnormally high burn rate of staffers  in this administration. The  competency gap  between those still in and those who have left is equally striking.
  Consider the reaction to the coronavirus. Sure, trade adviser Peter Navarro  warned  about the pandemic. The problem is,  because he’s Peter Navarro , it was impossible for him to convince anyone else that he was the stopped clock. In the months leading up to the current moment, the Trump staffers paying the best attention to the coronavirus were the ones who had left the administration. Former homeland security adviser Tom Bossert was early in warning about the dangers of a pandemic, as was former Food and Drug Administration commissioner Scott Gottlieb. As  Politico’s Meredith McGraw  noted a few weeks ago, “The ominous message coming from former administration officials often stood in contrast to the upbeat White House narrative.”
  McGraw suggested “the disconnect is perhaps an example of the evolution of Trump’s administration — dissenting voices have fallen away in favor of those more willing to toe the Trump line.” However, even this has not proved to be a perfect guide to who stays and who goes. As press secretary, Stephanie Grisham proved to be an even bigger toady than Sarah Sanders. She  never held  a televised news briefing. In response to some criticisms from former White House chief of staff John Kelly,  Grisham said , “I worked with John Kelly, and he was totally unequipped to handle the genius of our great President.” That’s loyalty — and yet, with the arrival of new chief of staff Mark Meadows,  Grisham is gone  from the West Wing.
  For the object lesson of the impossibility of staffing Trump, consider the odyssey of acting Navy secretary Thomas Modly. He only was made acting secretary after his predecessor was fired over disagreeing with Trump’s intervention into the military justice system, after which  he wrote in this newspaper , “the president has very little understanding of what it means to be in the military, to fight ethically or to be governed by a uniform set of rules and practices.” 
  After that inauspicious start, Modly was put in a tough spot after  the San Francisco Chronicle’s Matthias Gafni and Joe Garofoli  reported on an explosive letter that the commander of the aircraft carrier USS Theodore Roosevelt sent to Navy officials pleading for assistance in response to the  coronavirus  spreading across his carrier. Capt. Brett Crozier wrote, “We are not at war. Sailors do not need to die. If we do not act now, we are failing to properly take care of our most trusted asset — our Sailors.” 
  In response, Modly told the Chronicle that, “we don’t disagree with the [captain] on that ship.” It quickly became clear, however, that Modly was not pleased with the letter going public and blamed Crozier for that. On Friday, Modly had relieved Crozier of his command,  explaining  at a news conference that the captain had displayed “poor judgment” and that “we do and we should expect more from the commanding officers of our aircraft carriers.” 
  Modly acted  against the advice  of both the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the chief of naval operations, Adm. Michael Gilday. Still, there might have been hidden aspects of this case that made Crozier’s actions seem worthy of questioning. My Washington Post colleagues  Dan Lamothe and Paul Sonne  do an excellent job of providing some background context to the events leading up to Crozier’s removal.
  Modly firebombed whatever mitigating circumstances might have existed with two highly questionable actions. First,  he called my Post colleague David Ignatius  to explain why he acted the way he did. In his account, Modly explicitly referenced the need to cater to Donald Trump’s whims:
  His next screw-up was to mimic his commander in chief’s style in response to  the rousing crew send-off  that Crozier received after he was stripped of his command. Modly decided to fly to Guam to address the crew of the Theodore Roosevelt in  a profanity-laden speech , in which he suggested either Crozier was “too naive or too stupid to be the commanding officer of a ship like this.” Modly also complained about the drama this had caused in Washington and blasted the news media and former vice president Joe Biden.
  The effect of this speech on the crew was  not good :
  Modly stood by his words  — until he didn’t and  apologized for them . Twenty-four hours later,  he was gone .
  The moral of this story is that there are three ways to try to staff Trump at this point, and two of them will end badly. The first way is to try to hold firm to one’s principles, in which case, Modly is correct: You will eventually run afoul of the president.
  The second way is to demonstrate complete fealty and try to adhere to his every whim. The problem with this is that the president suffers from  poor impulse control . A lot of his instincts will be off the mark, and once he is forced to change course, he will need a fall guy. This is what happened to Modly.
  The third way is to marry Ivanka.
  This is not the best way to run the federal government in an emergency.
 