Update:  Clearwater, Cocoa Beach, Lee County and other communities  announced plans Wednesday to close beaches  due to coronavirus.  
  Thousands of people in Florida are seemingly ignoring  social distancing  guidelines during the  coronavirus  outbreak. Despite warnings from public health experts, photos and videos show beaches across the state packed with spring breakers. 
  On Monday, President Trump announced new  national recommendations  for Americans to help prevent the continued spread of COVID-19, which has killed at least 93 people in the U.S. to date. The recommendations include avoiding gatherings of more than 10 people and not eating at restaurants and bars.
  Essentially, every American should be practicing social distancing. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends  keeping 6 feet away  from other people.
  But on Clearwater Beach in Florida, spring breakers don't seem to be abiding by those rules. Helicopter footage and social media posts reveal thousands of people lying side by side on the beach and swimming in the ocean in groups, with no apparent concern for the  pandemic .
  "Everything might be canceled due to #CoronavirusPandemic concerns, but oh man, the beach is packed," CBS affiliate WTSP reporter Liz Burch  tweeted  over the weekend.
  In a  news conference  Tuesday morning, Florida Governor Ron DeSantis ordered all bars and nightclubs to close effective at 5:00 p.m. for 30 days. He also recommended that the state's 12 public universities require distance learning for all students through the end of the semester.
  Additionally, the governor ordered restaurants to reduce their capacity by 50% and encouraged people to order takeout instead. However, he did not announce statewide closures of beaches.
  "What we're going to be doing is, simply, for the statewide floor for beaches, is applying the CDC guidance of no group on a beach more than 10 and you have to have distance apart if you're going to be out there," DeSantis said. "Different localities are going to make decisions about what makes sense."
  Some beachgoers don't seem to be taking the warnings seriously. 
  "If I get corona, I get corona. At the end of the day, I'm not gonna let it stop me from partying," Brady Sluder, a spring breaker from Ohio, told Reuters. "We're just out here having a good time. Whatever happens, happens." 
  According to DeSantis, there have been 192 confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Florida, including 173 residents of the state. 
  While Florida's Gulf Coast is still busy with spring breakers,  Fort Lauderdale ,  Miami Beach  and several other communities announced they were closing their beaches this week. In addition, bars, nightclubs and restaurants, entertainment venues and gyms are closing to the public as of Tuesday in some cities. 
 