President Trump’s Oval Office  speech  on his administration’s response to the coronavirus has been widely panned by journalists and stock traders. In hindsight, though, it will probably be seen as the moment when the United States started getting serious about the crisis.
  Trump’s response before Wednesday night had been notably casual and dismissive. His tweets had noted that annual flu outbreaks kill tens of thousands of people without causing national lockdowns. His  news conference  announcing the formation of a coronavirus response task force headed by Vice President Pence was notable for its lack of urgency. It wasn’t that the United States wasn’t doing anything to combat the disease’s spread, but that there was a conscious attempt to avoid fanning the flames of panic.
  But panic arrived without the president’s aid. News of the crisis in Italy dominated headlines while increasing numbers of Americans were diagnosed with the virus. The decisions by former vice president Joe Biden and Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) to  cancel  political rallies in Ohio pushed virus to a level the president couldn’t ignore. If his prospective opponents were restricting campaigning because of the spread, this was getting serious. And so the president leaped into action.
  The speech itself was poorly delivered, with Trump obviously reading words from a teleprompter that others had written. The tone nonetheless was distinctly Trumpian. He rightly took credit for his early decision to restrict travel from China, noting that without having done so, the disease would probably have begun spreading across the United States earlier. He imposed an unexpected travel ban on most of Europe. And he sent the clear signal that he would use whatever levers he has at this disposal to send a fiscal stimulus into the economy to minimize the impact that fighting the disease could cause.
  Trump thus took his “America First” impulses and allied them to a new cause: Safety First. His cavalier attitude is gone, replaced with a neo-Churchillian resolve to fight the disease wherever it appears and with whatever it takes. Unusually for him, he struck upbeat notes of confidence and optimism. He noted repeatedly that the United States’ strong economy and civil society meant it was well positioned to see this through and win the fight. Trump will never match Ronald Reagan’s rhetorical heights when rhapsodizing about our nation’s promise, but his vision of U.S. “ carnage ”  has been banished from sight.
  No one expects a sudden turnaround in the disease’s progress. The coming days will surely bring additional diagnoses and more instances of canceled events and social distancing. The  National Basketball Association  suspended its season, and  Major League Baseball  canceled the rest of spring training and will delay its  March 26  Opening Day by at least two weeks. Don’t be surprised if the  Masters  Tournament, a rite of spring’s arrival for golf fans, is also postponed. With the  oldest  fan base of any professional sport, golf tournament attendees are probably at particular risk should they catch the coronavirus. All of this will lead to fear and dread.
  But our response has to start somewhere. Expect Trump to take more of a hands-on approach to managing the crisis, with frequent president-led updates and visits to the front lines. Most importantly, expect Safety First to become the administration’s mantra. Marketing is one thing this president is an expert at.
  Marketing has to be met with follow-through, and after Trump’s Oval Office address, we should expect that as well. Trump can also keep public spirits up if he moves from his usual grab bag of attacks and jibes to the more uplifting and statesmanlike approach on display Wednesday night. No one expects him to do this, but Trump should have realized by now that a president is in a unique position to rally the nation when in crisis.  Biden  can give a  speech  on the need for presidential leadership to combat the disease, but only Trump can deliver it.
  I’ve commented  before  on the difference between the statesmanlike Teleprompter Trump and the divisive Twitter Trump. The stakes now demand Teleprompter Trump, not Twitter Trump. We need a national leader who forgets grudges and rises above partisanship. Teleprompter Trump talked the talk Wednesday. We’ll see soon if he can walk the walk.
  Churchill famously  remarked  that the British victory over the Nazis at the battle of El Alamein was neither the end nor the beginning of the end, but the end of the beginning. In time, Trump’s speech may be seen as the end of the beginning of the crisis. Now, it’s time for the president to guide us to the beginning of the end.
  We’re looking for stories of how the coronavirus has affected people of all walks of life. Write to us. 
  Read more: 
  Jennifer Rubin: Trump’s Oval Office failure 
  The Post’s View: Lock down, but don’t shut down 
  Greg Sargent: Amid ‘foreign virus’ flailing, Democrats toss Trump a lifeline 
  Alyssa Rosenberg: Coronavirus is a nightmare. These stories tell us how to survive — and rise above it. 
  Alexandra Petri: No news but good news on the coronavirus 
 