[This briefing has ended. For the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak in the New York area, read  Thursday’s live coverage .]  
  The fireworks show must go on. 
  So said Mayor Bill de Blasio on Twitter on Wednesday,  posting a video message  in which he promised that the annual Macy’s Fourth of July pyrotechnic display would light up the sky despite the city’s current shutdown and gloomy prospects for the summer.
  “One thing we know for sure,” Mr. de Blasio said. “We will find a way to put on a show that will show how much we love our country.”
  He elaborated at his morning briefing. 
  “This is a day we cannot miss, this is a celebration that has to happen,” he said. “Come hell or high water we are going to do this.”
  The response on Twitter was swift and furious. Some people apparently felt the festive promise showed misplaced priorities.
  “How about u stop worrying about Celebrations and fix this city,”  one user asked .
  “How about Macy’s just gives all that money to supermarket, delivery and healthcare workers?”  asked another . “I promise you New Yorkers are more worried about their own health, the health of others, and ensuring that their favorite small businesses are able to survive, rather than a stupid fireworks show.”
  Others noted that Macy’s had  furloughed most  of its 125,000 U.S. employees last month. 
  Although the company does not publicly disclose its costs for the fireworks display, which last year involved setting off 70,000 pyrotechnics from barges along the East River, the price tag has been estimated at around  $6 million in fireworks alone , according to the website Bankrate.com. 
  The event has required the presence of 6,000 police officers in previous years, according to the city. 
  Asked if a fireworks display was worth the price, Mr. de Blasio said the celebration of what he called a “sacred” day was “part of our effort to fight back to recognize a day of this importance.” In the “grand scheme of things,” he said,    the cost was small. 
  Considering that the city has already canceled popular outdoor events like the St. Patrick’s Day Parade and the Pride Parade, which had been scheduled for June 27, in line with a ban on large gatherings meant to slow the virus’s spread, Mr. de Blasio did not specify what exactly a safe, socially distant Independence Day celebration would look like.
  The spread of  the coronavirus  may be slowing in New York, but the infection rate among inmates at some of the state’s 52 prisons continues to spike, sickening hundreds of prisoners and killing six as of Tuesday.
  Four of the dead prisoners had been held at the Sing Sing Correctional Facility north of New York City in Ossining, according to state Department of Correction and Community Supervision.
  The two other dead inmates had been incarcerated at the Otisville and Queensboro Correctional facilities. A total of 239 prisoners have tested positive for the virus and 79 have recovered, the department said. 
  Mr. Cuomo agreed in March to release up to 1,100 people who were being held in jails in New York City and elsewhere in the state on minor parole violations. More recently, he said the state would free prisoners who were older and nearing their release dates.
  But prisoners-rights advocates, saying the prison population tends to include people who are older and have underlying health conditions, have urged the governor to go further by releasing more prisoners who are susceptible to potentially fatal complications of the virus. 
  Advocates said they had heard from inmates at Sing Sing who described troubling conditions, including a person coughing excessively for days and exhibiting other virus symptoms like diarrhea, headache and a loss of senses while being held in isolation.
  “Many more people will die on Cuomo’s watch unless he immediately answers the national call for him to test all incarcerated people and grant broad clemency now,” the Release Aging People in Prison Campaign and other advocacy groups said in a statement on Tuesday. 
  It started with a Bronx Zoo employee who had contracted the coronavirus but was not showing any symptoms. From there, the virus spread to  Nadia , a 4-year-old Malayan tiger who was visibly sick by March 27. 
  By Wednesday, five tigers and three African lions at the zoo had tested positive for the virus, zoo officials said. 
  The big cats were tested through fecal samples that were analyzed at veterinary labs. No resources were diverted from human testing to test the animals, the zoo said. 
  Workers at the zoo, which has been closed to the public since March 16, suspected that the cats had been infected after several developed a cough. 
  “All eight cats continue to do well,” the zoo said in a statement. “They are behaving normally, eating well and their coughing is greatly reduced.”
  The announcement that the big cats in the Bronx were infected came the same day that  the federal Agriculture Department and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said  two domestic cats in New York State had also tested positive. The cats were showing only mild symptoms and were expected to be fine, officials said.
  The Agriculture Department and the C.D.C. emphasized that there was “no evidence that pets play a role in spreading the virus in the United States.” For now, the C.D.C. recommends keeping cats indoors to prevent them from coming into contact with other animals or people.
  For people who become sick, the agencies recommend, as they have in the past, staying away from pets as much as possible and treating them as you would a person in your family.
  
  The New York City Council, meeting via Zoom on Wednesday, introduced a virus relief package that included measures to protect tenants, small businesses, essential workers and homeless people.
  The legislations contains a workers’ “bill of rights” that requires paid sick leave for so-called gig workers and premiums for nonsalaried essential employees at big companies until the state of emergency is lifted, as well as a ban on the firing of essential workers without just cause. 
  The legislation would also give renters who have been affected financially by the virus and shutdown more time to pay their rent, and offer housing protection to essential workers, the City Council speaker, Corey Johnson, said.
  The meeting on Wednesday, which was  streamed live , was the council’s first since the city shut down in the face of the outbreak.
  The measures to help essential workers at big companies include a requirement for bonuses ranging from $30 for shifts under four hours to $75 for shifts over eight hours.
  The tenant protections would bar marshals and sheriffs from collecting debts or evicting residential or commercial tenants affected by the virus until next April.
  For people living in homeless shelters, where  the virus has hit hard , the legislation requires the city to provide private rooms for every adult until the pandemic ends.
  The provisions for small businesses include suspending personal-liability provisions in leases so that business owners affected by the virus do not face personal financial ruin or bankruptcy.
  New Jersey recorded another 314 virus-related deaths, Gov. Philip D. Murphy said on Wednesday. It was a slight decline from the record one-day toll the state reported on Tuesday and brought the total number of virus-related deaths in New Jersey to 5,063. 
  As is his fashion, Mr. Murphy identified several of those who died of the virus in recent days. They included  John Careccia , 74, the chief of the Woodbridge Township Ambulance and Rescue Squad,  Kevin Kurdyla , who worked in production at The Star-Ledger of Newark and was a former Rutgers football standout, and  John Ferrarella , 70, a retired Paterson Fire Department captain.
  State officials continue to see evidence of progress in the fight against the virus, the governor said. For instance, the number of hospitalizations reported on Wednesday fell to 7,210, nearly 400 fewer than the day before. And the number of people being discharged from hospitals on a daily basis continues to outpace the number of people being admitted, Mr. Murphy said.
  “We continue to see that the curve of new Covid-19 cases remains significantly flat,” he said. “But while we consider this a positive step in our fight we’re not even close to considering victory.”
  Even with the positive trends, New Jersey officials are closely watching the virus’s spread in the central and southern parts of the state.
  Judith Persichilli, the state health commissioner, said four hospitals in central New Jersey had reported being forced to divert patients elsewhere late Tuesday after becoming too full.
  “We’re seeing an increase in cases in the central region and a flattening of the cases in the northern region,” she said.
  Mr. Murphy also said he would require hospitals to report all demographic data for admitted patients who tested positive for the virus. Hospitals would also be required to provide demographic data for those who sought tests but did not get them, he said.
  New York State recorded another 474 virus-related deaths, Mr. Cuomo said at his daily briefing on Wednesday. The new deaths brought the state’s overall toll to 15,302. 
  It was the third straight day that fewer than 500 deaths were reported, a sign that the outbreak might be leveling off after several days of more than 700 deaths.
  The number of virus patients in hospitals also fell for a ninth straight day, Mr. Cuomo said.
  During the question-and-answer portion of the briefing, Mr. Cuomo got into a testy exchange with a reporter who asked if the restrictions put in place to contain the virus might soon be doing more damage than the virus itself. 
  The reporter, Anne McCloy of WRGB-TV, cited protesters outside the State Capitol in Albany, who said they did not have enough money to feed their families for another week.
  The governor, as he has previously, said that reducing the risk of death outweighed the economic hardship being felt around the state. 
  “You want to go to work? Go take the job as an essential worker,” he said. “There are people hiring. You can get a job as an essential worker. So now you can go to work and you can be an essential worker and you’re not going to kill anyone.”
  The exchange underscored a hard-line position the governor has taken that may become more difficult to stick to in the weeks to come.
  Mr. Cuomo has said the virus is likely to surge to some degree once restrictions now in place are loosened, he declined on Wednesday to address how that expectation was affecting his plans to reopen.
  Other developments from Mr. Cuomo’s briefing:
  Later in the day, Dr. Kelly Henning of the public health program at Bloomberg Philanthropies, Mr. Bloomberg’s charitable organization, said on a Zoom call with reporters that the group would work with state officials, the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health and a group called Vital Strategies to hire and train 4,000 to 5,000 people as contact tracers as soon as possible. 
  The state would pay the people, and the Bloomberg group would help with the hiring process, she said. 
  For two weeks after the first confirmed case of coronavirus emerged in New York, 33,000 city employees were still punching in and out of work by resting their hands on a shared scanner. Sanitizer was placed nearby. It often ran out.
  Some city workers, concerned about infection, took to wearing masks and gloves on the job. At least one agency ordered them to stop because they might induce panic.
  “Staff are NOT permitted to use masks or gloves while serving clients,” read an email sent on March 12 to members of the city’s Human Resources Administration.
  That same day, Mayor Bill de Blasio announced that the city would begin a work-from-home policy for municipal employees, even though  many of its agencies were not capable of adopting it .
  The coronavirus pandemic has posed a number of challenges that are unprecedented in modern history, forcing governments around the world to take extraordinary measures to try to curb the outbreak as  the number of cases  surpassed 2.4 million.
  New York City, like many other governments, adopted policies that adhered to guidelines issued by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the World Health Organization. As the virus spread, city and state officials took a more aggressive posture: Large gatherings were banned, schools were closed and businesses were ordered to have workers telecommute.
  But when it came to its own huge work force of more than 300,000 full-time employees, New York City faced a different challenge: how to keep essential levels of government functioning without unduly exposing workers to the virus.
  Mr. de Blasio said on Wednesday that the city would extend extra support to the 400,000 people who live in New York City Housing Authority buildings.
  The mayor said that public housing residents would be a priority at six testing sites set to open in the coming days, and that three sites opening next week would be based at public housing developments in Brooklyn, Queens and Manhattan.
  Mr. de Blasio said face coverings and gloves would be delivered to all authority tenants and that older residents would be given hand sanitizer. Additionally, he said, food delivery would be expanded to all authority buildings that house older people.
  He also said the city would pay $5 million to supply 10,000 older residents of public housing properties with free tablet computers with internet access to help them stay in touch with their families.
 