Ben Kamisar and Melissa Holzberg
  WASHINGTON — Since April 8 — the day Joe Biden  became the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee  — President Donald Trump's re-election campaign has spent 52 percent of its cable TV ad spending on ads airing on Fox News, according to data from Advertising Analytics.
  That differs from the Biden campaign's cable TV buys, which have directed nearly 22 percent for ads airing on Fox News, 23 percent on CNN and 10 percent on MSNBC. 
  Trump has spent just 9 percent of his cable TV buys on CNN, and 6 percent on MSNBC. 
  And the two candidates are spending drastically different amounts on cable TV — Trump has spent about $15 million, while Biden has spent about $2.5 million.
  Cable TV buys don't show the full picture of either campaign's TV investments — both have spent millions of dollars on traditional network TV ads, and the president has far outspent Biden at most advertising turns ($71 million overall since April 8 compared to $19.3 million for Biden). 
  But the glimpse at how the candidates are approaching cable TV buys is   one of many examples of Trump playing to his base — while Fox News enjoys strong ratings across the board,  polling also shows  Fox News viewers are far more likely to support the president. 
  As much of the president's strategy zeroes in on maximizing enthusiasm and ginning up turnout among those who may already support him, recent polling has shown an increasingly difficult landscape for his reelection. The latest NBC News/WSJ poll  showed  that 50 percent of registered voters said there is "no chance" they will vote for Trump. And 52 percent of registered voters said they were "very uncomfortable" with his candidacy. 
  Of course, that doesn't mean voters feel assured that Biden will win. While Biden carried support from a majority of registered voters in Pennsylvania in a recent Monmouth University poll,  57 percent of Pennsylvania voters  said there is a "secret" group of voters who will support Trump but not tell anyone.
  Trump won Pennsylvania  by fewer than 70,000 votes  in 2016. 
  Many of the president's ads have focused on painting Biden as a socialist, and accusing Biden of wanting to defund and abolish police. But recent polling has Biden leading even on issues that Trump sees as a strength. 
  In a recent  Washington Post/ABC News poll , 50 percent of adults said the trusted Biden more than Trump when it comes to crime and safety, and 58 percent of adults said they trust Biden more on race relations. 
 