Good morning, NBC News readers.
   has prompted a fresh debate over states' rights, the urgent need for antibody tests, and what's it like to ride out the pandemic with your ex-partner.
  Here's what we're watching this Tuesday morning.
  President Donald Trump used the daily White House coronavirus briefing on Monday to air his  .
  Trump also claimed that he has   to decide when to reopen the country.
  "I'm going to put it very simply: the president of the United States has the authority to do what the president has the authority to do, which is very powerful. The president of the United States calls the shots," Trump said Monday evening. "When somebody’s the president of the U.S., the authority is total, and that’s the way it’s gotta be." ( )
  But experts — and the   —  .
  The president didn't shutter the country — governors did, using authorities afforded to the states to quarantine and isolate — and he can't simply announce its reopening.
  "There's no statutory authority for the president to do that," Stanford University law professor Bernadette Meyler said.
  Many governors appear to agree.   announced Monday that they would work together to lay out a plan to reopen in conjunction.   announced a similar plan, as did  .
  Here are some other developments:
  As Americans look toward a return to normalcy after the coronavirus pandemic, a major question will be: Who is immune to the virus? To answer that question, the promise of   looms large.
  These tests are different from the diagnostic tests used to determine whether a person is sick with the virus. Instead, the tests look for the antibodies in a person's blood that the immune system makes in response to an infection.
  Knowledge of who has antibodies could tell the estimated 25 percent of people who had asymptomatic infections that they did, in fact, catch the virus. And it would, in theory, answer the question of if and when anyone who has recovered from the illness could return to work safely.
  NBC News spoke to the head of the CDC, Dr. Robert Redfield, about antibody testing and immunity to the coronavirus. Check out what he had to say about the promise of the tests and when they may become more widely available  .
  Rumors about the manager with the virus started to spread around Worldport, UPS' sprawling air hub in Louisville, Kentucky, earlier this month.
  Employees texted one another to ask whether they'd heard about Roml Ellis, the well-liked 55-year-old who worked the night shift. They'd heard he was sick, that he'd been hospitalized and then that he'd died.
  UPS employees said that despite asking management repeatedly about their sick co-worker, they were kept in the dark as the company cited medical privacy concerns. The rumors were only confirmed once they were reported by the media.
  As the coronavirus spreads through the ranks of the nation's delivery workers, employees and union representatives across the country say their employers' refusal to share crucial information is  .
  "How are any of us supposed to get ahead of a virus when we don't even know who's sick?" one Worldport employee asked.
  African countries previously hit by deadly Ebola outbreaks are using the lessons they learned to fight the coronavirus pandemic, experts say, because they know how to rapidly track down, screen and quarantine potential patients.
  "When a certain outbreak is over, you have a capacity left behind that you can build on or adapt. It could be for COVID-19 or something else tomorrow," said Dr. Mary Stephen, a technical officer for the World Health Organization at its regional office in Brazzaville, Republic of Congo.
  Only 14,744 cases had been detected on the African continent as of Monday, according to the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention. But to avoid disaster, health officials there are racing to compensate for weaknesses in national health systems by playing to their strengths.
  Even under the best of circumstances, co-parenting with an ex can be challenging.
  Now, amid an outbreak that has closed family courts, shuttered neutral meeting places where child exchanges typically happen and raised the health risks of shuttling children from one home to the other, the pandemic is posing extra challenges  .
  Looking for the next "Downton Abbey?" Two new series are battling for the crown,  .
  From how can I safely buy groceries to how can I make a face mask?  .
  
  —   disputing Trump's claim that it's the president's call to reopen state businesses.
  A 99-year-old British man has   for the U.K.'s National Health Service by walking lengths of his back yard to help him keep fit during the lockdown.
  World War II veteran Tom Moore, who broke his hip 18-months ago, started walking after accepting a challenge from his daughter. She promised to donate money for every length he walked and then started a JustGiving page with the goal of raising just over $1,000. After local media picked up the story, donations skyrocketed.
  "I am amazed and floored and so grateful to the generosity of the great British public and we can’t thank them enough," said Moore.
  I’m walking....     
  Thanks for reading the Morning Rundown.
  Please send me any comments or questions, please email on at: petra@nbcuni.com
  And if you'd like to receive the Rundown in your inbox Monday to Friday, please sign-up  
  Be safe and stay healthy, Petra Cahill
  Petra Cahill is a senior editor and writer for NBC News Digital. She writes NBC News' Morning Rundown newsletter. 
 