Good morning, NBC News readers.
  President Donald Trump and the head of the CDC are at loggerheads over the timeline for a Covid-19 vaccine and the efficacy of masks.
  Here's what we're watching this Thursday morning.
  President Trump said Wednesday that a Covid-19 vaccine could be   — hours after the head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention testified it likely would not be ready for all Americans until the middle of next year.
  "We’re all set to distribute immediately. We are set to — it could be in October, or in November. It could be later than that, but I think it will be in October,"  .
  "We will be able to distribute at least 100 million vaccine doses by the end of 2020. And a large number much sooner than that," Trump said.
  Just hours earlier in testimony before a Senate committee,   a vaccine likely wouldn't be ready until late November or December and that it would initially be "very limited supply and will have to be prioritized."
  Redfield   it would probably take "six to nine" months to get every American vaccinated and predicted that the U.S. would be able to return to "regular life" by late next year.
  "I think he made a mistake when he said that. It’s just incorrect information," Trump said when asked by reporters about Redfield's timeline. "Under no circumstance will it be as late as the doctor said."
  Trump also took aim at Redfield saying during his Senate testimony that face masks are the most "powerful public health tool" the country has against Covid-19.
  "We have clear scientific evidence they work, and they are our best defense," Redfield said. "I might even go so far as to say that this face mask is more guaranteed to protect me against Covid than when I take a Covid vaccine."
  Trump rejected that notion and said Redfield "made a mistake" in his testimony. "Vaccine is much more effective than the mask," Trump said
  Asked why people should trust him over his CDC director, Trump said "because of the great job" he's done.
  Earlier on Wednesday, the CDC released sweeping plans to   within a day of emergency use authorization or full approval.
  Trump's White House news briefing came shortly after Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden said that he doesn’t trust Trump to safely oversee the federal government’s approval and dissemination of a Covid-19 vaccine.
  "I trust vaccines, I trust scientists, but I don’t trust Donald Trump,"   during a speech in Wilmington, Delaware.
  Meantime, there was also a big shake-up at the Department of Health and Human Services on Wednesday.
  The agency announced that its top spokesman,  , was taking a leave of absence days after he promoted dangerous conspiracy theories during a Facebook Live video.
  In   first reported by  , Caputo, HHS' assistant secretary for public affairs, claimed that "there are scientists who work for this government who do not want America to get well, not until after Joe Biden is president."
  He also urged Trump supporters to load up on ammunition in preparation for a violent left-wing rebellion if the president wins re-election.
  Even though Sally is no longer a hurricane, the threat was far from over Wednesday night as it moved inland as a tropical depression,  
  The system threatened to lash much of the coastal region near the Florida-Alabama border with heavy rain and flooding into Thursday, officials said.
  The storm was "causing torrential rains over eastern Alabama and Western Georgia," the National Hurricane Center said in a bulletin late Wednesday.
  Brian McNoldy, a hurricane researcher at the University of Miami, said the slow-moving storm could be particularly damaging.
  "If they aren't moving along and they just kind of sit there, you're going to get a ridiculous amount of rain," he said.
  In some corners of the Latino community, Trump's economic comeback message appears to be   where it matters most six weeks before the election — at the margins.
  Strategists in both parties say they see an opportunity for Trump to connect with the message that his policies fueled a strong economy — including record low unemployment among Latinos — before the coronavirus struck and that he is leading a recovery that would be endangered if Biden wins in November.
  "One of the reasons that the president is having success with Latino voters is because he is trusted by them on the economy," former Rep. Carlos Curbelo, R-Fla., said Monday in an interview on MSNBC. "The Hispanic community, especially here in the state of Florida, is an entrepreneurial community."
  Meantime, younger voters appear to favor Biden over Trump — but   shows they’re not wild about either candidate.
  The Justice Department has recently acted "more like a trade association for federal prosecutors than the administrator of a fair system of justice,"   Wednesday likely to   with department prosecutors.
  Too much deference is given to career prosecutors, who can too often become "headhunters, consumed with taking down their targets," he said in remarks at Hillsdale College, a conservative, privately funded university in Michigan.
  Barr has been criticized by current and former government lawyers for interfering in the prosecutions of Trump associates Michael Flynn and Roger Stone. Career Justice Department lawyers quit the prosecution teams in both cases.
  It's a mistake to compare ICE's "mass hysterectomies" to Nazi experiments. Here's why, Danielle Campoamor  .
  A   is "ideal" for heart health, doctors say.
  From generators and first aid kits to board games, here's what you  .
  
  — Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director   testifying before a Senate appropriations subcommittee on Wednesday.
  Looking for your very own T.rex?
  The auction house Christie's has got you covered. But you're going to need a big room — and a lot of money.
  Christie’s plans to   in early October, the company said Wednesday.
  Talk about a unique gift. The dinosaur known as "STAN," is approximately 67 million years old and was discovered in 1987 in South Dakota by amateur paleontologist Stan Sacrison.
  STAN stands about 13 feet high and 40 feet long. He could be yours for $6-8 million, Christie's estimated value.
  Thanks for reading the Morning Rundown.
  If you have any comments — likes, dislikes — send me an email at: petra@nbcuni.com
  If you'd like to receive this newsletter in your inbox Monday to Friday, please sign-up  
  Thanks, Petra
  Petra Cahill is a senior editor and writer for NBC News Digital. She writes NBC News' Morning Rundown newsletter. 
 