WASHINGTON – President Donald Trump's top health advisers – Anthony Fauci and  Deborah Birx  – showed up at a White House event Friday with protective masks, though the president himself continued to spurn any kind of face covering.
  "We've all been tested," Trump said when asked about his decision to go without a mask. "I've been tested."
  Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, was one of three health officials who signed a statement this week saying they would wear masks and take other precautions during White House events.
  Fauci and Birx, coordinator of the White House coronavirus task force, stood behind Trump with masks as the president discussed a project to develop a vaccine for the coronavirus.
  The president has steadfastly refused to wear a mask in recent weeks, despite new White House guidelines that require those around them to do so.
  Ivanka Trump , daughter and senior adviser to her father, said she wears a mask at the White House, and added that the protocols are different as they relate to the president himself.
  "There are different procedures as it relates to interacting with the president," Ivanka Trump  told USA TODAY on Thursday  when asked about criticism her father has received for declining to wear a mask in public.
  The president "is tested on a daily basis – all those who come into contact with him are tested on a daily basis," she said in an interview. "No one is in close proximity to him that isn't wearing a mask."
  Critics say Trump's refusal to don a mask is setting a bad example at best and endangering others at worst. The president even rejected a face covering when he  toured a mask production facility  last week in Arizona.
  Trump also went bare faced when he  toured a medical equipment factory Thursday in Allentown, Pennsylvania . After he arrived in Pennsylvania, the state's Democratic governor, Tom Wolf, took a shot at the president over the mask issue.
  "Masks add another layer of protection to help stop the spread of #COVID19," Wolf tweeted, but not mentioning the president. "It's important that as many people as possible wear masks when leaving home."
  Want to talk more about politics?: Join our Facebook group: ‘Across the Aisle, Across the Nation.’ 
  Most visitors to the White House wear masks these days.
  Robert Redfield, director of the Centers for Disease Control, and Steve Hahn, the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, signed the statement along with Fauci pledging to wear masks and take other protective steps when entering the executive mansion.
  The mask rule is not mandatory for department heads who do not work at the White House.
  During the White House vaccine events, two high-ranking officials – Defense Secretary Mark Esper and Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar – also did not wear face coverings.
  Asked about the different approaches, Trump said he told aides they could do what they wanted regarding masks.
  "You can blame it on me," Trump said. "I gave them the option."
  As the House debated Friday whether to allow lawmakers to vote remotely to avoid spreading the virus, Rep. Jim McGovern, D-Mass., lit into his colleagues who were not wearing masks in the Capitol and opposed the procedural change.
  McGovern said lawmakers who don’t cover their faces “as a display of how unafraid they may be,” could be asymptomatic carriers of COVID-19 and infecting others.
  “Please, spare me the self-righteous kind of indignation over this,” he said. “We’re supposed to follow the medical advice.”
  Contributing: Maureen Groppe 
 