WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump and the White House coronavirus task force announced the administration is enacting a wartime provision in response to  the spread of the virus , and referred to the virus as an "enemy."
  It's just one step the task force has taken to combat the coronavirus pandemic. In a series of press conferences over the last several days, the president has declared a national emergency and warned that Americans may need to practice social distancing through the summer.
  Here are the updates the White House team gave on Wednesday to combat COVID-19:
  The Defense Production Act grants the president the ability to direct the production of certain equipment. Trump did not say specifically how the administration plans to use the wartime authority, but it could allow for the expansion of the production of vital medical supplies like face masks and ventilators. Trump said the White House has "targets" for equipment.
  “We need millions of masks,” Trump said. “We need respirators.”
  'How bad is this?' It's bad': Trump shifts tone as pandemic worsens, crisis hits economy 
  The act gives Trump the authority to direct private companies for matters of public defense. And in 2009 that authority was expanded by Congress to allow for preparation for emergency response services. 
  Reports of a shortage of personal protective equipment at hospitals continue to surface. On Tuesday, the White House task force requested that construction companies donate any heavy duty N95 masks they have to hospitals and stop ordering more from manufacturers.
  Trump said that the Department Housing and Urban Development would suspend foreclosures and evictions through the end of April amid the coronavirus outbreak, which has resulted in layoffs and missed work.
  Also on Wednesday, the Federal Housing Finance Agency said it would suspend foreclosures and evictions for at least 60 days for single-family homeowner mortgages backed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac.
  Trump announced earlier Wednesday that the border between the U.S. and Canada would temporarily close to discretionary travel, though it will remain open to trade. He said it was a mutual agreement with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.
  "We will be, by mutual consent, temporarily closing our Northern Border with Canada to non-essential traffic," Trump tweeted Wednesday.
  At the coronavirus task force press conference Trump said the restrictions would likely last for 30 days.
  Trump also confirmed that he plans to invoke a provision that would allow him to prohibit certain people from entering the country, including asylum seekers and those entering the country illegally at the southern border. But, he said, the U.S. would not be closing the southern border.
  The federal government is recommending health care providers and patients postpone any elective procedures to free up hospital resources for urgent coronavirus cases. Officials have warned that a surge in cases could overwhelm the health care system, underscoring the need for social distancing measures.
  “We fully appreciate that this is going to have a major impact on the health care system,” said Seema Verma, director of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.
  Trump also said health officials are working on a "self swab" coronavirus test that would allow front-line health care workers to test themselves for the virus. "It would free up a lot," Trump said.  
  Defense Secretary Mark Esper said the Pentagon would also make 5 million masks available from its reserves to the Department of Health and Human Services, with the first million immediately available. The Defense Department will also make up to 2,000 ventilators available as needed, Esper said.
  And Trump said the government is ordering "thousands and thousands" of ventilators in case they are needed to treat coronavirus patients.
  Dr. Deborah Birx said at the Wednesday press conference that other countries have reported that young people are becoming ill from the coronavirus, which has been officials have advised affects the elderly and medically vulnerable the most.
  "You have the potential to spread it," Birx said of the millennial generation. She urged young people to take precautions.
  The task force has been asking Americans to avoid contact with others so they reduce the risk of unknowingly transmitting the virus, without showing symptoms, to those who could be the most impacted.
  Contributing: Courtney Subramanian, John Fritze, David Jackson, Tom Vanden Brook 
 