At least some Republicans are dropping the pretense they are “pro-life.” They seem to have backed away from their longtime assertion that all human life is sacred — so sacred as to justify overriding the autonomy and health of women in the context of abortion. Frankly, they are revealing that they think human beings, post-birth, are expendable because of inconvenience (who wants to sit home?), personal liberty (stop telling me what to do!) and economics (we cannot afford the burden). Tuck those away for the next abortion discussion.
  At any rate, the jig is up. The  Daily Beast reports :
  So open very slowly, only when you have a massive testing and contact tracing infrastructure and are ready to reverse course if deaths increase? Nope,  testing in Texas lags  behind what scientists say is an acceptable level to test, track and isolate those who test positive. Abbott, a Republican, is throwing open the doors anyway, even as  cases and deaths in his state rise . (“Data from the Texas Department of Health Services shows that the number of new cases each day does not show a leveling-off. As of April 30, there were 1,033 new cases of COVID-19.”) Abbott watches the death toll rise but doesn’t take his foot off the gas. (“Additionally, the COVID-19 death toll has risen steadily week-to-week in April. In the period from April 24 to April 30, 221 people died, making it the deadliest week since the tracking of data began.”)
  Similarly, former Republican  New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie intoned on CNN : “Of course, everybody wants to save every life they can — but the question is, towards what end, ultimately?” Umm, so more men, women and children do not die? The conversation then got surreal:
  President Trump, of course, is the leader of the brigade that suddenly puts not all that much value on human life. During an interview on ABC News that certainly will find its way into another ad  for  former vice president Joe Biden,  Trump sounded downright dismissive about the loss of life :
  The president didn’t sound any more empathetic at an  appearance in Arizona  (where he declined to wear a mask, thereby increasing the risk of infection and death of those around him):
  Then there are five red-state governors  who insisted on the pages of The Post that a can-do attitude, “tenacity" and “grit” allowed them to reopen their states. (Does that suggest states in which thousands are dying and remain sheltering in place are just wusses?) Maybe the reopening is possible because they tolerate increases in unnecessary deaths that Democratic governors simply will not.
  Take the state of one of the op-ed writers, Gov. Kim Reynolds’s Iowa. As the local ABC News affiliate reported on Tuesday, “The Iowa Department of Public Health announced 19 more deaths due to the virus and 408 new confirmed cases in the state. That brings the totals to 10,111 confirmed cases and 207 total deaths.”
  Working-class, nonwhite workers  are often the victims:
  Reynolds won’t close the plants. “She has resisted calls to close the plants, saying they provide crucial food for consumers and markets for farmers.” (It’s a  similar story  in Missouri, notwithstanding the assertions of its governor, Mike Parson, another of the op-ed writers.) These governors are opening their states not because they have conquered the virus  but in spite of the rising number of cases and deaths .
  Republicans’ candor, their willingness to sacrifice American lives in a desperate effort to shape up the economy in time for Election Day, is stunning. But — weird, huh? — Americans do not see things that way. Overwhelmingly, they reject Republicans’ indifference to human life.  Their  lives, not those of the cavalier Republican politicians, are at issue.
  Watch the latest Opinions video:  
  Read more :
  Dana Milbank: ‘I believe I am treated worse,’ Trump says. As if. 
  Max Boot: Trump’s dithering proves one thing: We’re at war without a leader 
  Mitch Daniels: When this pandemic is over, let’s avoid the partisan blame game 
  Jennifer Rubin: Trump’s damage is already done. He may not be able to save himself. 
 