
  A federal judge released celebrity attorney Michael Avenatti from a federal jail due to coronavirus concerns.
  The judge said Avenatti will have to return to custody in 90 days. The temporary release came after Avenatti’s lawyers said he was at risk for contracting coronavirus because he had pneumonia last year. 
  Avenatti will be required to be held in quarantine at the jail facility for 14 days to ensure he doesn’t have the virus and can’t spread it into the community, the judge said. 
  Once jail officials determine Avenatti doesn’t have the virus, he will be released to home confinement at his friend’s house in Los Angeles and will not be allowed to use the internet. A second friend posted a $1 million bond securing his release. 
  Some context:  The attorney has been held at the Metropolitan Correctional Center in Manhattan after a California judge revoked his bail earlier this year finding he engaged in suspicious financial transactions. The MCC has reported cases of the virus among inmates. 
  Avenatti was convicted earlier this year of attempting to  extort over $20 million from Nike .
  He has been charged in two separate indictments with embezzling $300,000 from his former client Stormy Daniels and with tax fraud and stealing several million dollars from other clients. Avenatti has pleaded not guilty to those charges. His trials have been set for later this year.
  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe called on citizens to refrain from visiting nightlife entertainment venues as the country sees increasing spikes in coronavirus infections.
  Speaking at a meeting of the national coronavirus task force on Saturday, Abe asked people to avoid going to evening spots such as nightclubs and bars and follow the social distancing guidance.
  Abe also urged businesses in seven prefectures, including Tokyo, to cut down the number of people going to the office by at least 70% and implement work from home systems.
  The prime minister on Tuesday said Japan needs to reduce 70-80% of human contacts in the next two weeks to reverse the increasing trend of new coronavirus cases.
  Despite Abe’s plea, urban cities in the country haven’t seen a drastic reduction in the number of commuters.
  State of emergency declared:  Japan issued a state of emergency on April 7 for a month across seven virus-hit prefectures but it carries no penalties for people venturing out for non-essential work.
  Earlier on Saturday, Japan’s health ministry reported 658 new confirmed coronavirus cases and six deaths by the end of Friday.
  For Lucia Dario, a nurse caring for Covid-19 patients at the Gemelli hospital in Rome, it is the emotional side of this epidemic that has been particularly draining. 
  Yes, the full body suit gets sweaty and wearing three pairs of gloves on top of each other — a necessary protection against the virus — makes her feel clumsy. 
  But it's the feeling of not being able to do more that is the toughest, she says. For the first few days of Italy's coronavirus crisis, she'd finish her shift, get into her car and cry. She felt useless. 
  
  "The isolation rooms are like bunkers, they are parallel realities," she said, describing the eerie atmosphere on the ward as "silence that screams."
  Dario and her colleagues are the only human contact these patients' rooms get. 
  "We ask them what they need, almost everyone says nothing, at most they ask for water," she said. Some lock eyes with her, she said, almost to signal that they will meet again one day, without the masks. She hears people sobbing, coughing and praying through the night.
  "Some turn the TV on at a very high volume to stop their thoughts," the nurse said. 
  Hospitals around the world have been on strict lockdown, banning visitors and limiting contact between patients, due to the highly infectious virus. 
  Oli Pohlová is a part-time nurse at the pulmonology ward of a hospital in the Czech town of Mladá Boleslav. With more than 600 beds, this hospital plays an important role in the region. It's normally buzzing with activity, but since Covid-19 hit, its doors have been shut to all visitors. 
  "It's very hard for the patients, many of them have not seen their families for a really long time," she said. So, as well as all the other tasks, nurses have also found themselves trying to give patients some company and relief from not being able to see their loved ones. "It's up to us now to chat with them, try to make them laugh for a bit, ask questions... you can't substitute the families, of course, but hopefully you can help a bit," Pohlová said.
  Dario has been a nurse for 20 years, but she said she has never witnessed anything like this crisis. 
  One dying patient has recently asked Dario to read her the last rites. "We are not priests of course, but we tried to do our best," Dario said. She prayed with the elderly woman. She passed away later, alone, far from her family. 
  READ MORE:  The nurses risking it all on the frontline of Britain's coronavirus outbreak 
  US cases top half a million:  Half a million Americans  have been diagnosed with the novel coronavirus. The grim statistic means that almost one in three cases worldwide is found in the United States. New York state alone has more cases than any other country except the US.
  As the country recorded the biggest single-day jump in Covid-19 deaths, President Donald Trump announced he will create an  "opening our country" taskforce . But as health experts study China and other countries that are starting to lift some of the harshest restrictions, they warn that "opening" the US should not be rushed.
  
  
  European countries cautiously consider easing lockdown:  Earlier this week, China started allowing healthy people to leave Wuhan, where the outbreak emerged in December. In Europe, several countries are now cautiously following in China's footsteps.
  Though mass gatherings and international travel remain largely off limits, some shops, outdoor exercise centers and schools are  beginning to reopen in some countries  including the Czech Republic, Austria, Denmark and Norway.
  Austria will gradually lift its lockdown after Easter,  but quarantine in prominent ski resorts has been extended by more than two weeks after coronavirus tests showed the virus is still widespread in the Alpine province of Tyrol.
  Boris Johnson's brother criticizes PM's pre-hospitalization treatment:  Max Johnson, the half-brother of Boris Johnson has described the Prime Minister’s pre-hospitalization treatment as a “shambles.”  On Saturday, a Downing Street spokesperson said the Prime Minister “continues to make very good progress” after he was released from intensive care Thursday. Johnson remains in hospital.
  Nearly 60,000 people have recovered from coronavirus in Spain,  but the number of deaths recorded in Spain has risen by 510 in the past 24 hours -- an increase of 3.2%.
  
  
  The half-brother of Boris Johnson has described the Prime Minister’s pre-hospitalization treatment as a “shambles.”
  In a statement to CNN, Max Johnson said while he grateful for the care his brother received from the NHS (National Health Service), he is critical of the events leading up to his hospitalization.
  Boris Johnson was moved out of intensive care after receiving treatment for coronavirus, Downing Street confirmed Thursday.
  The Prime Minister, 55, was taken to hospital on Sunday because he was displaying "persistent" coronavirus symptoms 10 days after testing positive. His condition deteriorated and he was taken into intensive care on Monday, causing a ripple of shock across the UK.
  In response to Max Johnson’s comments, Downing Street described the Prime Minister’s health as a “private matter” adding it would be “inaccurate” to suggest Boris Johnson hadn’t been physically examined by a doctor before entering hospital. Max Johnson said he’s “massively relieved” by his brother’s recovery and hopes he can now take time off to full recover.
  He added that the coronavirus pandemic is a good reminder of the need to ensure all frontline workers -- including the NHS, police, bus drivers, and care workers -- get access to proper safety equipment and testing.
  “And we can play our part by just staying at home to protect the NHS and save lives,” Max Johnson said.
  Since the outbreak began, the government has faced intense criticism over lack of testing and protection for frontline workers. 
  A total of 59,109 people in Spain have now recovered after contracting coronavirus -- an increase of more than 11,000 over the past three days -- according to new data from the Spanish Health Ministry released Saturday.
  
  However, the number of deaths recorded in Spain has risen by 510 in the past 24 hours, an increase of 3.2%. The total number of deaths stands at 16,353. 
  Active cases increase:  The number of active cases rose to 86,390 (a figure that excludes those who have died or recovered from the virus). That’s an increase of 1.5% -- slightly higher than the rate of increase over the past four days.
  There are at least 501,615 cases of coronavirus in the US and at least 18,777 people have died in the US from coronavirus, according to a  Johns Hopkins University's tally  of cases in the United States.
  The totals includes cases from all 50 states, the District of Columbia and other U.S. territories, as well as all repatriated cases. 
  Wyoming is the only state that is not reporting a death from coronavirus.
  
  
  Officials warn of risk of ending social distancing measures:  If the US ends social distancing and other coronavirus mitigation strategies by May 1, as President Donald Trump has encouraged, case numbers in the country could rebound, officials warned.
  The projections are based on new modeling scenarios run by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) at the University of Washington that assume social distancing policies will end from next month.
  The projections are based on new modeling scenarios run by IHME that assume social distancing policies will end from next month.
  The research center plans to release state-level analyses based on the new models next week, Murray said. 
  The warning comes after Trump said he wanted to reopen the country's economy, despite many researchers and medical staff saying it's far too early for such a move.
  Ecuador reported a significant jump of 2,196 new coronavirus cases over the last 24 hours, bringing the total number of cases to 7,161, the country's Ministry of Health announced on Friday.
  While those numbers represent the biggest daily jump over a 24-hour period, authorities are advising that some of those infections may have occurred at an earlier time without being registered then. 
  So far 297 people have died from the virus, the ministry said.
  
  
  Bodies left on the streets:  The majority of the cases were reported in the country's most populous city of Guayaquil and Guayas province, where residents said health services have collapsed and dead bodies of victims had to be left on the streets for collection by authorities. 
  President Lenin Moreno has called for an investigation into the mishandling of bodies of coronavirus victims.  
  In a televised speech Friday evening, Moreno said every citizen plays a role in overcoming the crisis and called for solidarity and discipline when it comes to social distancing and security measures. 
  Emergency could turn into "social tragedy":  "The painful experience of other countries, some of the most developed countries in the world, shows that if we don't implement an emergency plan, the emergency could turn into social tragedy because of the lack of employment, lack of income and lack of food," Moreno said, adding that his government is doing its best to make sure that medical workers have enough equipment and protective gear. 
  Also on Friday, the mayor of the city of Guayaquil, Cynthia Viteri, reiterated her call for help and her criticism towards the national government in an interview with CNNE. 
  Viteri acknowledged that her city and the province of Guayas are currently the epicenter of outbreak in the country and said the number of deaths is likely even higher than the reported figures. 
  Stringent lockdown measures at two prominent Austrian ski resorts have been extended by more than two weeks after coronavirus tests showed the virus is still widespread in the Alpine province of Tyrol, local authorities said. 
  Speaking at a press conference Friday, Tyrol Governor Guenther Platter said, "Due to the continued existence of infection chains, on the advice of medical experts, we have no choice but to extend the quarantines for the Paznaun Valley and St. Anton for a further two weeks until April 26." 
  Alpine lockdown:  The Alpine ski resorts of St. Anton am Arlberg and Ischgl, as well as the Paznaun valley surrounding Ischgl, have been on lockdown since March 13, when it became apparent that the resorts were a breeding ground for coronavirus infections. 
  Authorities in Tyrol are accused of having reacted too late to the first signs of the coronavirus outbreak in Tyrol -- particularly in Ischgl --- contributing to the spread of the virus in Europe and beyond.
  Almost 3,000 tests carried out within a day showed that up to 19% of the people tested showed signs of coronavirus infection, Platter said. 
  He said the extended lockdown measures were "very dramatic" for those affected, who already lived isolated from the outside world for about four weeks, but it is now essential to prevent the virus from spreading at all costs.
  Austria to lift lockdown:  Earlier this week, the Austrian government said it would gradually begin to reopen shops after Easter, making it the first country in Europe to do so. 
  The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Austria has reached 13,561 and the death toll stood at 319, the country's health ministry said Saturday. The Alpine province of Tyrol accounts for almost 25% of coronavirus cases in the country.
  
 