WASHINGTON — Hours after officials confirmed the first death in the country from the coronavirus, President Trump moved on Saturday to calm public fears and demonstrate aggressive action against the illness, including by issuing new restrictions on foreign travel.
  Presiding over an abruptly announced news conference in the White House briefing room and flanked by top public health officials, Mr. Trump, who has drawn criticism for his response to the virus, warned that additional coronavirus cases in the United States are “likely,” but added that “healthy individuals should be able to fully recover.”
  Mr. Trump, who has blamed his political enemies for exaggerating the threat of the virus, appealed to “the media and politicians and everybody else involved,” asking that they “not do anything to incite a panic, because there’s no reason to panic at all.”
  He said that he would be meeting on Monday with pharmaceutical executives to discuss how a vaccine could be developed “very quickly,” and that the United States had adequate supplies to confront a spread of the illness, including 43 million surgical masks with more on the way.
  “Our country is prepared for any circumstance,” the president added. “We hope it’s not going to be a major circumstance, it’ll be a smaller circumstance. But whatever the circumstances, we’re prepared.”
  The person who died had been a patient at EvergreenHealth hospital in Kirkland, Wash., according to a spokeswoman. In a news conference, Mr. Trump described the person as a “medically high-risk” woman in her late 50s.
  Dr. Robert R. Redfield, the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said there was no evidence that the patient had traveled recently or had contact with someone known to have the virus, adding to  growing signs that the virus may be spreading  in the United States. (Mr. Redfield  later said on Twitter  that the C.D.C. had “erroneously” told the president in a briefing that the victim was female.)
  Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington declared a state of emergency, a proclamation that allows the use of the Washington National Guard, if necessary.
  The news conference was the latest effort by Mr. Trump to show that he was capably managing the nation’s response to a viral epidemic that his critics say he is  poorly equipped to handle , and a sign that the coronavirus had entered a new and more urgent stage in the United States. It also suggested that officials were bracing for many more cases in the days ahead, and the public alarm they are sure to inspire.
  Joining Mr. Trump at the briefing, Vice President Mike Pence announced that the State Department would issue its highest-level warning, known as a “do not travel” alert, for areas of Italy and South Korea most affected by the virus. Mr. Pence said the United States was also banning all travel from Iran, and barring entry to any foreign citizen who has visited that country in the last 14 days.
  In response to a question, Mr. Trump also said he was “very strongly” considering new travel restrictions along America’s southern border to contain the coronavirus. But he later seemed to play down the possibility, saying “this is not a border that seems to be much of a problem right now.”
  He also disputed criticism that he had trivialized the coronavirus during a campaign rally Friday night in South Carolina, in which he said of Democrats: “This is their new hoax.” The comment drew swift condemnation from his political rivals.
  “The ‘hoax’ was used with respect to Democrats and what they were saying,” Mr. Trump said on Saturday.
  Mr. Trump said that 22 people were currently ill with the virus, including four he said are “very ill.” In fact, 70 cases have been reported in the country, though just one of them fatal. Most could be explained by overseas travel or contact with someone who had been ill. This week, though, four new cases,  in California, Oregon and Washington , were the first in the United States where the cause was unknown — a sign, experts warned, that the virus, which has killed more than 2,800 people worldwide, now threatens everyone.
  Several officials at the briefing, including Dr. Redfield and Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, warned Americans to gird themselves for more bad news.
  “We need to prepare for further challenges, and we will have them,” Dr. Fauci said. “You will hear about additional cases that will be coming on. You should not be surprised by that.”
  “The risk to the American public remains low,” Dr. Redfield said. But officials drew a distinction between the young and healthy on the one hand and elderly people or those with health problems on the other.
  Dr. Fauci said that, based on data from China, people at highest risk include those with heart disease, chronic lung disease, diabetes and obesity. He said that 15 to 20 percent, or slightly more, of infected people will require “advanced medical care,” including hospitalization. Previously infected people cannot become infected again, he said.
  In a letter to colleagues, Speaker Nancy Pelosi said on Saturday that the House hoped to bring an emergency funding package for the virus up for a vote in the coming week. The speaker said the package would include provisions to ensure that any vaccine developed for the virus would be affordable. And in a possible foreshadowing of challenges to come, Ms. Pelosi included information about a contingency plan for Congress to continue functioning in the case of an outbreak.
  “The American people expect and deserve a well-coordinated, whole-of-government, fully funded response to the coronavirus threat that addresses this public health crisis in a smart, scientific and strategic way,” Ms. Pelosi wrote.
  Also on Saturday, the Food and Drug Administration  announced  that it was authorizing American laboratories to develop their own coronavirus tests, which should significantly increase the country’s testing capacity. 
  Experts have been frustrated with the limited availability of coronavirus tests in the United States, which until now could be provided only by the C.D.C. Broader testing will enable more rapid detection and isolation of people who have the coronavirus to help contain its spread.
  The number of confirmed cases of the coronavirus around the globe passed 86,000 on Saturday, according to  a tracker maintained by Johns Hopkins University . Of the more than 86,500 cases recorded, more than 79,000 were in mainland China.
  Qatar confirmed its first case of the virus on Saturday, its health ministry said, bringing the number of countries where the virus has been detected to at least 57. The ministry said in a statement that the patient was a 36-year-old citizen who had recently returned from Iran.
  Iran, which has been at the center of the virus’s spread in the region, confirmed an additional 205 cases on Saturday, bringing its official total to 593. It also confirmed a further nine deaths from the virus, bringing the official death toll there to 43.
  France will ban gatherings of more than 5,000 people in enclosed spaces and all gatherings in Oise, its region most affected by the coronavirus, the country’s health minister said on Saturday, as he reported a further 16 confirmed cases of the virus.
  That brings the total cases there to 73, more than 50 of which were confirmed in the past few days. Of the country’s coronavirus cases, 59 people remain in the hospital, 12 have been released, and two have died.
  The minister, Olivier Véran, also said at a news conference Saturday afternoon that a half-marathon scheduled for Sunday in Paris would be canceled.
  South Korea, which has the largest coronavirus outbreak outside China, reported 376 new cases on Sunday morning, bringing its total to 3,526. At a high-level meeting in North Korea, Kim Jong-un ordered all-out efforts to fight the virus, state news media reported.
  The United States military, which has more than 28,000 personnel in South Korea, said on Saturday that the spouse of an American soldier infected with the virus had also tested positive for it.
  Officials in Washington State were already discussing the possibility that they may recommend cancellations of public events, including sports and entertainment, to limit the spread. They began warning that life in the coming weeks may change drastically.
  In Oregon, officials say that an elementary school employee was among the new, unexplained cases. Dr. Dean Sidelinger, Oregon’s state health officer, said a broader shutdown of schools was an option the state could pursue at some point.
  On Friday night, health officials in Washington State announced that a teenage boy and a woman in her 50s had tested positive for coronavirus. The woman had recently spent time in South Korea. The boy, a high school student, had not traveled to any high-risk areas. The student’s high school will not reopen until Tuesday, and some peers who were in contact with him will be kept out of school for at least 14 days, officials said. 
  Dr. Jeff Duchin, health officer for Public Health Seattle & King County, warned that businesses should be prepared to allow employees to work from home and that people may need to consider avoiding crowds.
  In Washington, D.C., Dr. Fauci, a federal health official for more than 35 years and one of the nation’s most trusted voices on epidemics, rejected reports that Trump officials had sought to prevent him from speaking on television for fear that his analysis would be too dire.
  “I’m not being muzzled by this administration,” Dr. Fauci said.
  The president, who, for his part, is anxious about the virus and the toll it has taken on the stock market, which he tracks closely as a measurement of his economic record, suggested that the crisis was manageable and that “the markets will all come back.”
  “For a period of time, we’re going to have to do whatever is necessary — safety, health, number one — and the markets will take care of themselves,” Mr. Trump added.
 