
  
  US President Donald Trump's name will appear on  checks sent to millions of Americans  to combat the economic effects of the coronavirus in a last-minute Treasury Department order, a senior administration official confirmed to CNN on Tuesday.
  The decision to add Trump's name will not result in a delay for Americans receiving those checks, the senior administration official said.
  The  Washington Post  was first   to report on the news Tuesday.
  Two senior officials told the Post that the decision would probably set back the delivery date on the first set of paper checks -- potentially slowing a process that could already take up to 20 weeks. But the Treasury Department denied the claim, with a department spokesperson assuring the Post that the first batch of checks was still slated to go out next week.
  Read more here: 
  Millions of South Koreans are expected to vote in today's parliamentary elections. But with the coronavirus outbreak, it's not exactly a typical election.
  Here's what's happening at the Samseon-dong polling station in South Korea's capital, Seoul.
  Social distancing 
  As voters queue up to cast their ballot, they must stand 1 meter (3.2 feet) apart. Stickers on the ground indicate where they need to stand.
  Gloves and masks 
  Anyone who isn't wearing a mask will be handed one before they enter the polling station. Voters are also given gloves, and their temperature is taken. Anyone with a temperature of more than 37.5 degrees Celsius (99.5 degrees Farenheit) must vote in a special booth.
  Casting their vote 
  Inside the polling station, the booths are regularly disinfected.
  Disposing of gloves 
  Once they've voted, voters can discard their gloves.
  
  
  An explosive outbreak of coronavirus at the Smithfield Foods plant in Sioux Falls, South Dakota could not have been prevented by a stay-at-home order, Gov. Kristi Noem argued in a news conference on Tuesday.
  Noem is one of a handful of governors who has refused to issue such an order, rejecting a request from Sioux Falls Mayor Paul TenHaken.
  The plant accounts for 4% to 5% of US pork production and employs about 3,700 people, according to Smithfield.
  The governor said that even with a broad order, the facility would have stayed open due to its status as a major food supplier. “This is a critical infrastructure job plant,” she said.
  As of Tuesday, 438 Smithfield workers in Sioux Falls had tested positive for coronavirus, and the plant is shut down indefinitely. But Noem said even a shelter-in-place order targeted only at the surrounding community would not be coming from her office. 
  “That could be a local decision that the mayor and city council could choose to do,” Noem said.
  Read more about the outbreak at the plant here: 
  This may be the new normal for quite a while.
  The US may have to endure social distancing measures -- such as stay-at-home orders and school closures -- until 2022, researchers projected on Tuesday. That is, unless, a vaccine becomes quickly available.
  That's according to researchers from the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, who published their findings in the  journal Science on Tuesday . Those findings directly contradict research being touted by the White House that suggests the pandemic may stop this summer.
  The team at the Harvard School of Public Health used what's known about Covid-19 and other coronaviruses to create possible scenarios of the current pandemic.
  The Harvard team's projections also indicate that the virus would come roaring back fairly quickly once restrictions were lifted.
  Read more here: 
    
  
  
  New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern has announced today that she, along with government ministers, will take a 20% pay cut for the next six months.
  The pay cut will help save money at a time when economies around the world are being heavily affected by the coronavirus pandemic.
  Coronavirus cases continue to spike in Japan, with  457  new infections recorded on Wednesday and  10  deaths on Tuesday, according to the country's health ministry.
  The total number of infections across the country now stands at  8,812 , including 712 cases associated with the Diamond Princess cruise ship that was quarantined in Yokohama Bay in February. The death toll is  131 , with 12 fatalities linked to the ship.
  Unknown sources:  While health ministry officials have focused on containing and preventing the spread of infection clusters, concern has grown nationwide as the numbers of cases with an unknown source of infection rise.
  
  
  The US has recorded  26,033  deaths from the novel coronavirus after the most fatalities in a single day since the epidemic began were reported on Tuesday, according to Johns Hopkins University.
  At least  2,405  new deaths linked to Covid-19 were reported on Tuesday, along with  26,633  additional cases of the virus. 
  Some  609,240  infections have been confirmed in the United States since the outbreak began in January.
  CNN is tracking US coronavirus cases here: 
  
  Most of the pregnant women in New York who tested positive for the novel coronavirus -- one in eight -- were asymptomatic at time of delivery, according to a letter published in the New England Journal of Medicine on Monday.
  The research was conducted between March 22 and April 4 at Columbia University Irving Medical Center and the New York-Presbyterian Allen Hospital. 
  The center put a universal testing policy in place for all women admitted for delivery after the medical centers had two novel coronavirus cases confirmed among their patient population.
  Asymptomatic cases suggest universal testing important:  Of the 215 pregnant women who delivered at these hospitals, four who tested positive for Covid-19 when they were admitted for delivery had a fever or some other symptoms of the coronavirus. 
  There were 29 others who tested positive for Covid-19 but did not have fever or any other symptoms of the disease. 
  The authors argue that this research shows that there are real potential benefits to conducting a universal test on patients. 
  Knowing if someone is infectious would help the hospital determine where to place the patients so they won’t get other people sick, and would help guide the hospital’s decisions on what personal protective equipment the staff may need.
  
  
  Confirmed infections of coronavirus have more than tripled in Peru over the past week, the South American country's health ministry reported on Tuesday.
  A total of  10,303  cases have been confirmed in the country -- a jump from 2,954 reported by authorities on April 7.
  On Monday, Peruvian President Martin Vizcarra said the rapid increase in cases is due to more people being tested across the country.
  The goal is to reach 12,000 tests a day, said Vizcarra, adding that more than 87,000 tests have been administered so far. 
  As of Tuesday evening,  230  people have died from coronavirus in Peru, according to the health ministry.
 