WASHINGTON – Facing enormous pressure for his administration’s handling of the coronavirus, President  Donald Trump sought Friday to regain his footing  during a press conference as he laid out his most specific plans yet to fight the pandemic. 
  Flanked by senior public health and private  industry officials, Trump ran through a litany of actions he said he would use to mitigate the impact of the virus. Speaking in the Rose Garden for more than an hour, Trump said he would declare a national emergency, direct billions in federal funding to local responders, remove federal regulations to expand hospital capacity and suspend interest payments on federal student loans. 
  At times combative, Trump's performance  represented a departure from his address to the nation days earlier , when he stumbled over his words during live, televised remarks from the Oval Office and later had to correct misstatements. His initial remarks led to a major selloff on Wall Street when markets opened hours later.
  On Friday, by contrast, markets rebounded as Trump spoke, closing ahead on the day's trading. 
  "Our overriding goal is to stop the spread of the virus and to help all Americans who have been impacted by this,” said Trump, reading from a stapled packet of papers as he spoke. “And this will pass. This will pass through and we're going to be stronger for it.”
  The press conference came as Trump has been put on defense over the slow distribution of coronavirus tests and initial statements in which Trump repeatedly contradicted his own senior public health officials. Trump initially sought to downplay the impact of the virus, comparing it the seasonal flu, but his tone has shifted in recent days and his remarks Friday were the latest tacit recognition of the serious challenge the problem poses for the nation, and his presidency.   
  Trump was unapologetic about the test shortages and other problems with the response. And he used his remarks to take several swipes at his predecessor, President Barack Obama, while also criticizing Democrats on Capitol Hill.    
  More: Trump declared the coronavirus a national emergency. What does that mean? 
  More: Trump shakes ' hands at coronavirus event, despite advice not to 
  But the president was more clear and in sync with members of his Cabinet than usual. He delved into the details of regulations he said would allow hospitals to treat more patients and a national emergency declaration he said would direct tens of billions of dollars in federal disaster aid to local responders battling the virus.  
  While the president offered both specific terms of his response and loftier language about how the nation’s resilience would see Americans through the pandemic, he was more pessimistic about Washington’s ability to negotiate legislation to offset the economic impact of the virus. Members of his administration and House Democrats had sounded positive about that effort throughout the week, but they also acknowledged no deal had yet emerged to help workers and hard-hit industries.  
  "We just don’t think they’re giving enough," Trump said of Democrats during the news conference. "We thought we had something, but all of a sudden they didn’t agree to certain things they agreed to."
  During the news conference, Trump repeatedly cut off reporters when their questions turned to fact checking or following up on his claims. At one point, reporters questioned whether Trump felt any responsibility for an initial slow federal response after he removed White House officials charged with pandemic response, Trump said he did not, and quickly moved on to the next question.
  “I just think it’s a nasty question,” Trump said. “We’re doing a great job.”
  Trump said the virus would “flow through” the nation, and he described the next eight weeks as "critical" to the effort to combat it. As he invited industry executives and other officials to speak, he frequently shook their hands – a greeting increasingly eschewed elsewhere in the country but apparently still accepted at the White House.
  Trump said he had not been tested for the virus, despite recent contact with at least one Brazilian official who tested positive. Trump said he “most likely” would be tested, but said he had no symptoms and offered no timeline for a test.   
  Trump’s remarks, which came as schools, conferences and other high profile events across the nation have been cancelled, drew praise from Republican lawmakers and a more muted response from Democrats. Some of his fiercest opponents on Capitol Hill applauded the president's decision to declare a national emergency, which many had sought. 
  Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., said he was "pleased" with the decision and urged officials in his home state to “immediately request the newly available” resources. 
  Still, Trump said he took no responsibility for the delay in availability of coronavirus tests. He also used his remarks to criticize Obama's response to the 2009 Swine Flu outbreak.  
  "We were given a set of circumstances, given rules, regulations, and specifications from a different time," Trump said. "It wasn't meant for this kind of an event, with the kind of numbers that we are talking about."
  Still, Trump sought to sound a confident note about the country's capacity to deal with the coronavirus after weeks in which markets have tumbled and he has faced questions about whether his administration is prepared for the worst.   
  “Americans are the strongest and most resilient people on Earth,” Trump said. “In the coming weeks, we will all have to make changes and sacrifices.” 
 