When President Trump was asked at Sunday’s White House  coronavirus  task force briefing why he didn’t warn Americans in February that the virus was spreading and implement social distancing earlier, Trump’s response was to go back to late January, when he issued the travel restrictions on Chinese people coming to the United States.
  In other words: More than two months into this crisis, Trump doesn’t have an answer for why he didn’t do more in this crucial window to prepare the country for the coronavirus.
  On Sunday, Trump got defensive when a reporter asked him why his administration had not done more to prepare. He told CBS’s Weijia Jiang to “lower her voice” and to take it “nice and easy.” Here’s their exchange:
  Trump announced the ban on Jan. 31 and it took effect Feb. 2. The decision was controversial in the global public health community.
  On Sunday, Trump pointed out that there had not been any covid-19 deaths in the United States at the time of his ban, which would seem like an implicit acknowledgment that he didn’t think the outbreak was going to be serious. Here’s that exchange, where he again uses gendered language as Jiang asks tough questions:
  
  Trump has been asked a version of this question before: why he didn’t do more in February after shutting down the borders to China (and later Europe). And he never has a good answer.
  He has at times said  that he knew how bad it could be but that he didn’t want to scare Americans: “I’m a cheerleader for this country.” Other times, like last week when he aired a campaign-style video of his actions that left out February,  he snapped at the reporter  who pointed that out.
  Trump’s new defense, which he also gave Jiang: In a Democratic presidential debate in February, not one question was about the coronavirus. (He said Sunday that he saw this being discussed on Fox News and thought it was a good point.)
  Former vice president Joe Biden  was talking about the coronavirus  in February, including in another debate. But more important, as Jiang noted, Trump is the president. He is the person with the most influence on the response.
  The reality is that behind the scenes in February, according to multiple deeply reported accounts  including in The Washington Post , Trump did not seem prepared, nor did he seem to want to acknowledge that the virus could ravage the United States.
  He has yet to find a way to explain that and has instead fallen back on attacking the messenger who points it out.
 