Monterey and San Benito counties in Northern California are asking residents to shelter in place.
  What we know about the orders: 
  The counties join seven others in the Bay Area that have ordered its residents to shelter in place to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Those counties include Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, San Francisco, San Mateo, Santa Clara and Santa Cruz.
  The PGA TOUR is canceling four additional tournaments, the group announced in a statement Tuesday.
  That brings the total to eight canceled PGA events and three postponed events, including The Masters and the PGA Championship.
  The next PGA TOUR event that has not yet been impacted by coronavirus is the Charles Schwab Challenge in Fort Worth Texas, which begins May 21.
  Belgium will enforce restrictions on movement of people beginning Wednesday at noon local time (7 a.m. ET), according to a statement from the government. 
  The measures, which will remain in place until April 5, will require citizens to stay at home except for outdoor physical activity and essential travel. 
  Essential travel includes going to the doctor, supermarket, post office, bank, pharmacy, gas stations, or to help people in need. 
  Non-essential travel outside Belgium will be prohibited and citizens are encouraged to work from home. 
  Companies who do not respect the social distancing measures will face a "heavy fine," according to the statement.
  
  
  Brooklyn Nets Kevin Durant has tested positive for coronavirus, according to Shams Charania of The Athletic.
  Earlier on Tuesday, the Nets announced that four of their players had tested positive for COVID-19 but did not reveal names.
  According to Charania, Durant told The Athletic that he is feeling fine, saying, "Everyone be careful, take care of yourself and quarantine. We're going to get through this."
  According to the team, all four Nets players are in quarantine with only one experiencing symptoms.
  CNN Sports has reached out to Durant’s agent for comment.
  Watch here:  
  
  Coronavirus is now reported to be in all 50 US states after West Virginia confirmed its first case Tuesday .
  West Virginia Gov. Jim Justice announced at a news conference Tuesday that the state had a case of coronavirus.
  
  Watch: 
  
  Gambia announced its first confirmed coronavirus case in a short tweet from the Health Ministry.
  The ministry did not provide additional details only stating more information will be released at another time.
  An asylum agreement between the United States and Guatemala was temporarily suspended out of caution over coronavirus, Guatemala’s government announced Tuesday, a setback for the Trump administration which has increasingly relied on its accord with the country to curb asylum. 
  The move comes a day after Guatemala's president Alejandro Giammattei said the country was closing its border in an attempt to prevent the spread of coronavirus. 
  Guatemala’s ministry of foreign affairs also said US deportation flights of Guatemalans were canceled Tuesday. 
  DHS did not respond to CNN’s request for comment. 
  Proposed emergency legislation to tackle coronavirus in the UK will allow police and immigration officials to detain a person who is, or might be "infectious," according to the government’s website.
  This is a step up from the March 3 government guidelines in which authorities could only detain those not respecting mandated quarantines. The bill will also enable UK Border Force to temporarily suspend operations at airports or transport hubs "if there are insufficient resources to maintain border security."
  According to the UK government, the bill also increases the protections for health professionals and independent workers. It will be introduced to Parliament this week.
  It will allow "recently retired NHS staff and social workers to return to work" without any impact in their pensions, reduce paperwork to allow quicker discharges, insure health professionals working outside their area of expertise and allow volunteers to pause their normal jobs up to four weeks, the government website said.
  "This could benefit more than 3 million people who already volunteer in health and care settings and bolster the NHS’s capacity to respond to the virus," the outline said. 
  Independent workers in self-isolation without symptoms since day one will also be able to access statutory sick pay. 
  UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock said the new measures “will only be used when it is absolutely necessary and must be timed to maximize their effectiveness, but crucially they give the government the powers it needs to protect lives."
  The legislation will be limited – for 2 years – and not all of these measures will come into force immediately, the website said.
  The UK’s Chief Medical Officer Professor Chris Whitty said the UK's approach to COVID-19 "has and will remain driven by the scientific and clinical evidence."
  
  
  Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe, the British-Iranian mother jailed in Iran on espionage charges, has been released from prison in an effort to control the countrywide spread of coronavirus on Tuesday, according to the Free Nazanin campaign’s statement. 
  According to a family statement, Nazanin believed that she had contracted coronavirus in Evin Prison last month. Although Iranian authorities have not tested her, she described her symptoms as those reported of the coronavirus, her family reported. Iran’s Judiciary spokesman Gholamhossein Esmaeili said that Nazanin is “in good health” during a press conference on state TV on March 3.
  The Nazanin campaign statement said: “Unfortunately, Nazanin will be exceptionally required to wear an ankle tag during the furlough, which her parents have now hired from the authorities. Nazanin’s movements will be restricted to 300m from her parents’ home.” 
  Zaghari-Ratcliffe, now 42, was arrested in 2016. The Iranian government accused her of working with organizations allegedly attempting to overthrow the regime. She was sentenced to five years in jail. Her family and her employer, the Thomson Reuters Foundation, deny the allegations.
 