The U.S. has reached a milestone that seemed unthinkable just a few months ago — the 3 millionth case of  .
  There were 3,000,012 confirmed cases of COVID-19 as of 11 p.m.Tuesday and around 10 percent of those (317,654) were reported since July 1,   showed.
  Meanwhile, the death toll was 131,661 and rising as the pandemic maintained a tragic trajectory.
  President Donald Trump, who just a week ago was saying the coronavirus would   insisted in a tweet that COVID-19 deaths rates were down 39 percent and that the U.S. had the lowest death rate “in the world.”
  Why does the Lamestream Fake News Media REFUSE to say that China Virus deaths are down 39%, and that we now have the lowest Fatality (Mortality) Rate in the World. They just can’t stand that we are doing so well for our Country!
  It was not clear how Trump reached the conclusion that “deaths are down 39%.” But the U.S. death rate is 4.44 percent, which is far from being the “lowest” in the world.
  In fact, the U.S. death rate is the 46th highest out of the nearly 200 countries surveyed by NBC News.
  Also, Americans account for more than   of the more than 541,000 coronavirus deaths reported around the world.
  In other related developments:
  Not long after Trump tweeted about the death rate, Dr. Anthony Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, appeared to contradict his boss during a Facebook Live press conference with Alabama Sen Doug Jones, who is a Democrat.
  "It's a false narrative to take comfort in a lower rate of death," Fauci said. "There's so many other things that are very dangerous and bad about this virus. Don't get yourself into false complacency."
  Fauci said the current rise in cases is tied directly to some states reopening too soon and that young people who are not wearing masks or social distancing are "propagating this pandemic."
  "So you are part of the problem, because you could, even though you feel fine, you could inadvertently and innocently infect someone else who then inadvertently and innocently affects someone who's really vulnerable," Fauci said.
  Fauci also said he was "strongly" in favor of mandating masks, but said it should be done at a local level.
  "I don't like to be, you know, authoritarian from the federal government but at the local level, if governors and others essentially mandate the use of masks when you have an outbreak I think that would be very important," he said.
  Republican leaders who had been reluctant to impose mask-wearing mandates have begun urging people to wear them, including New Hampshire Gov.  , who said he will be wearing one Saturday when Trump arrives for a rally.
  Sununu, however, is not requiring that attendees don masks. And it remains to be seen whether Trump will wearing a mask. He has rarely been seen in public wearing a mask.
  States like Florida, Texas, Arizona and California have seen the biggest jump in cases of late. But while the governors of   and   have imposed mask mandates, the governors of Arizona and Florida have not gone that far.
  Meanwhile, Gov. Mike DeWine, whose state had been   until the case numbers began climbing again, imposed a  in the seven counties that have seen the biggest jump. That includes the counties with the state's biggest cities, Cleveland, Columbus and Cincinnati.
  Arizona reported 3,653 new cases and 117 additional deaths Tuesday. Fifty-two of those deaths, however,  .
  Florida, which hit   twice since July 1, has had 206,447 cases and 3,879 deaths.
  California has reported 273,625 cases and 6,457 deaths, while Texas has had 209,541 cases and 2,708 deaths.
  With the pandemic showing no signs of slowing down,  , R-Iowa, announced that he would not be attending the upcoming GOP convention in Jacksonville, Florida. It will be the first time in 40 years that Grassley is a no-show at a Republican presidential convention.
  Iowa has reported 31,758 cases and 3,879 deaths, according to NBC News figures.
  Other Republican senators who are skipping the convention are Susan Collins of Maine, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, and Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, all for reasons unrelated to the pandemic.
  Ohio Sen. Rob Portman, also a Republican,   he might not attend the GOP convention because of the pandemic.
  Nigel Chiwaya is a deputy data editor for NBC News.
  Corky Siemaszko is a senior writer for NBC News Digital.
 