Good morning, NBC News readers.
  The number of coronavirus deaths in the  as of Tuesday morning. In New York City, the epicenter of the outbreak, doctors and nurses are struggling to keep up with the onslaught of patients overwhelming hospitals.
  Here's what we're watching this Tuesday morning.
  A doctor at a major public hospital in New York City described having worn a single N95 mask, a critical tool in protection from the coronavirus, for an entire week. Normally, the Brooklyn doctor would change it after every visit with a patient.
  Colleague after colleague, including nurses and residents, have been falling sick with the virus. Patients were coming in for unrelated health issues and suddenly testing positive for coronavirus after coming to the hospital.
  "The situation is quite horrible and they're saying we haven't hit the peak yet and we're doing all sorts of crazy things to keep up," the doctor, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said. "We're having so many patients dying."
  The doctor said the pandemic was ravaging a public hospital that was "already underresourced and underfunded,"  as coronavirus cases continue to overwhelm medical facilities that often serve vulnerable populations.
  New York City is scrambling to keep up with the health crisis, converting a host of public spaces into temporary hospitals. From turning the city's   into a 1,000-bed facility, to building an   and building another 350-bed facility at the  , which usually hosts the U.S. Open.
  Still the city's doctors and nurses are pleading for more help as coronavirus infections soar and overwhelm the medical system.
  "We see a tidal wave coming at us and we're scrambling to try to prepare for it as much as possible," Anthony Ciampa, an NYC registered nurse,  .
  Now prisoners in the city's jails are sounding the alarm as coronavirus spreads there, too. "I fear for my life," said one prisoner.
  But New York City's jails are only the tip of the iceberg.  , one retired sheriff said.
  And we did a fact check on President Donald Trump's suggestion that medical supplies are "going out the back door" of New York hospitals. Spoiler alert:  .
  Here are some other developments:
  You can hear doctors and nurses in New York speak for themselves in the video above. But their stories all over the media landscape have not stopped coronavirus deniers from taking aim at hospitals as the pandemic grows.
  Two videos making the rounds   on different parts of the internet, with many people on the far right going so far as to allege that overworked health care professionals are not telling the real story.
  There are now  , including nursing homes, with residents who are infected with the coronavirus, according to the CDC.
  And the number of cases in each keeps rising.
  As the U.S. death toll from coronavirus continues to climb, President Trump  , NBC News' Jonathan Allen writes in a news analysis.
  Trump invited a lineup of CEOs to applaud him and advertise their companies from a podium bearing the presidential seal in the Rose Garden.
  It wasn't until they were done congratulating one another that the victims of COVID-19, and the people fighting it on the front lines, became a focus of Monday's daily White House briefing.
  Those who recover from the coronavirus are probably not going to catch it again, at least in the short term, experts say.
  But it's unclear  .
  "It is reasonable to predict we will have some immunity. To say you will have lifelong immunity? We just don’t know yet," said one microbiology professor.
  Coronavirus and Trump's failures have #PresidentCuomo trending.   Susan Del Percio, former special adviser to Gov. Andrew Cuomo, writes in an opinion piece.
  Stuck at home and thinking of buying an indoor bike? Here are  , according to experts.
  
  —  on the coronavirus pandemic at a news conference Monday.
  Amid a deluge of updates regarding how the global pandemic is disrupting daily life, actor John Krasinski's asked his Twitter followers to share some positive stories that "made you feel good this week or just made you smile."
  "Boy, did you deliver," Krasinski said as he launched his new YouTube show called   that features uplifting true stories during the coronavirus pandemic.
  Thanks for reading the Morning Rundown.
  Please send me any comments or questions you have on the coronavirus so we address them in future stories: petra@nbcuni.com
  If you'd like to receive this newsletter in your inbox Monday to Friday, please sign-up  
  Be safe and stay healthy, Petra Cahill
  Petra Cahill is a senior editor and writer for NBC News Digital. She writes NBC News' Morning Rundown newsletter. 
 