The U.S. coronavirus caseload, the world’s biggest,  passed four million  on Thursday. The numbers of daily hospitalizations and deaths were also on the rise.
  Public health experts have warned that the actual number of people infected is far higher than the number of reported cases, and could be  up to 13 times as high in some regions .
  California and Texas are among the states setting daily records for new infections. More than 143,000 people have died in the U.S., according to a Times database.
  Here are the  latest updates  and  maps  tracking the pandemic.
  In other developments:
  China has vowed to  retaliate in kind for the closure of its consulate in Houston  and other U.S. actions, but senior officials in Beijing are hoping to do so without endangering the economy or inviting global isolation.
  Behind the scenes, Chinese leaders seem to have little desire to further escalate the tensions, concerned that any strong moves could play into President Trump’s hands as he mounts his re-election campaign.
  But the furor is also inflaming anti-American sentiment in China and emboldening more hawkish voices. Nationalists are calling for China to go further than a measured tit-for-tat response and even consider shutting down the American Consulate in Hong Kong.
  Related:  Cybersecurity researchers have found  a vulnerability in an app that helps power popular Chinese-made consumer drones , highlighting U.S. officials’ concerns that Beijing could get access to information about Americans.
  The Indian National Congress party led the country to independence more than 70 years ago. Recently, though, it’s been  cracking under the weight of huge victories by the Bharatiya Janata Party of Prime Minister Narendra Modi .
  Congress got another jolt this month when Sachin Pilot, who represented the party as deputy chief minister in the northern state of Rajasthan, was accused of secretly working on behalf of Mr. Modi’s party.
  The B.J.P. has seized on the turmoil, steadily undermining Congress in the few states that it still controls. And Mr. Modi constantly accuses Congress of being a family dynasty.
  Response:  Mr. Pilot has denied the allegations, but Rajasthan’s Legislature could still remove him and other rebel officials.
  As their land fails them, hundreds of millions of people will be forced to choose between flight or death. The result will almost certainly be the greatest wave of global migration the world has seen.
  The Times Magazine and ProPublica joined with the Pulitzer Center to model, for the first time, how people will move across borders. With every degree of temperature increase,  roughly a billion people may be pushed outside  the zone in which humans have lived for thousands of years.
  Nazi conviction:  A juvenile court in Germany convicted  a 93-year-old man for helping the Nazis murder thousands of people  when he was a 17-year-old concentration camp guard, possibly one of the last verdicts to be handed down to a living Holocaust participant.
  South Korea’s most wanted man:  Yoo Hyuk-kee , 48, was arrested in the U.S. this week on extradition request. South Korean prosecutors accuse him of embezzlement that helped create unsafe conditions on the Sewol ferry, which sank in 2014, killing more than 300 people, many of them high school students.
  Obama-Biden video:  Former Vice President Joe Biden has released  a video of a conversation with former President Barack Obama  that cast the current occupant of the White House as unworthy and Mr. Biden as the perfect leader to replace him.
  Uighur forced labor:  More than 190 organizations in 36 countries are calling on clothing brands  to cut all ties with suppliers implicated in Uighur forced labor in China . Targets include Adidas, Lacoste, H&M, Abercrombie & Fitch, Ralph Lauren and the PVH Corporation, which owns labels including Tommy Hilfiger and Calvin Klein.
  Climate change lawsuit:  A 23-year-old law student has filed a class-action suit accusing the  Australian government of failing to disclose financial risks from climate change .
  Saudi king’s health:   King Salman , 84, had surgery to remove his gallbladder, the royal court said. His recent hospitalization has revived speculation about his health.
  Snapshot:  Above, China’s Long March 5 rocket  blasting off from Wenchang Space Launch Center  on Thursday on its way to Mars. The Tianwen-1 mission — which combines an orbiter, lander and rover — is scheduled to arrive at the red planet in February 2021.
  Dueling albums:  Taylor Swift and Kanye West, who have been linked since the MTV Video Music Awards in 2009, are  set to tangle again when they both release new records today. 
  What we’re reading:  BuzzFeed News’s Q. and A.  with coronavirus experts on whether they’re taking vacations, and if so, how. “A lot of them are too busy to take off, which many of us in news can relate to,” says the Briefings editor, Andrea Kannapell. “But some of them are, and I plan to follow their advice.”
  Cook:  This  chicken and celery salad with wasabi-tahini dressing  is equally delicious cold or at room temperature and can be tucked into soft potato rolls for sandwiches.
  Listen:  Among  female-led New Wave bands , the Cosmopolitans and the Spiders are less known than Kate Bush or Blondie, but equally worth a listen.
  Do:  Changing the way we breathe can influence weight, athletic performance, allergies, asthma, snoring, mood, stress, focus and so much more. You can learn to  breathe better with these exercises .
  At Home has our full collection of ideas  on what to read, cook, watch, and do while staying safe at home. 
  With more than 70,000 infections and 1,800 deaths, the Philippines has been hit hard by the coronavirus. President Rodrigo Duterte has empowered the police to go home to home searching for the sick, and warned that anyone not wearing a mask will be arrested. 
  Jason Gutierrez, who is based in Manila, spoke to our colleagues from the  Coronavirus Briefing  about the government’s heavy-handed approach. 
  What is the status of the virus in the Philippines? 
  The government hasn’t really been upfront about what’s happening. President Duterte just said that all we can do is wait for the experts in the United States or China to develop a vaccine and basically advised the public to follow the rules or risk arrest.
  Our Health Ministry is seen by many as really inefficient. It lets Mr. Duterte say what he wants to say and does not clarify it in public.
  What is the situation in Manila? 
  People in the city have to go through checkpoints, and cops go around some areas in fatigues, like they’re going into battle. Some carry large firearms. It’s worrying because it’s militarizing the response.
  In some areas, especially the impoverished parts, people are really afraid to leave their homes and are basically told to just wait it out for food and medical advice or risk being arrested.
  What has the response been to President Duterte saying the police would arrest people who didn’t wear masks? 
  In a lot of places, you see people in public always wearing medical masks. Ironically, he does not wear a mask whenever he meets his officials, and he only wore a mask when he made that threat.
  Militarizing the response is probably his way of telling the public that he, as a strongman president, is doing something.
  That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
 