
  
  In a statement released Monday night, United States Olympic & Paralympic Committee CEO Sarah Hirshland and Chair Susanne Lyons said that the organization has heard the concerns from Team USA athletes regarding the upcoming 2020 Games, and that the “path toward postponement is the most promising.” 
  Hirshland and Lyons continued : “We encourage the IOC to take all needed steps to ensure the Games can be conducted under safe and fair conditions for all competitors.”
  
  
  Washington state Gov. Jay Inslee issued a new order Monday night that requires residents to stay at home for the next two weeks.
  The order takes effect immediately. Exceptions were made for jobs deemed critical and grocery shopping.
  "This weapon — distancing ourselves — is the only weapon we have against this virus," Inslee said in a televised address.
  One of Chicago’s leading children’s hospitals had to scrap plans to host a mobile testing site, which was scheduled Tuesday on the city’s north side after it said both of its vendors weren’t able to fill orders for testing supplies.
  It’s another example of how difficult it can be to get tested for Covid-19.
  Julie Pesch, spokesperson for Lurie’s Children’s Hospital, told CNN the site was designed to be for pediatric patients not admitted to the hospital who are experiencing symptoms of the virus.
  The hospital was hoping to alleviate an onslaught of pressure both its hospital and individual pediatricians across the city are facing. But because of the high demand for testing and a lack of testing supplies like nasal swabs, those plans were cut short on Friday. 
  “Our normal operational process is to hold 2-4 days of supply on a product like this. Last week (March 16) when we went to purchase an elevated quantity, due to the Covid-19 needs, we were informed by both our primary and secondary vendors that they were not able to fill orders,” Pesch said 
  The hospital was hoping parents with an appointment would be able to get a child tested every 15 minutes. But now the hospital says sick patients will need to go through their regular pediatricians for testing.
  The lack of supplies to launch such an effort “is a big deal,” Pesch said. “The more testing that we can do, that means the less children that we have in the emergency department, in the pediatrician's office. That means we don’t have to use as much PPE. That is the main message that we’re trying to get across.”
  “Other hospitals are in the same situation,” said Danny Chun, spokesperson for the Illinois Health and Hospital Association. The lack of testing supplies remain a problem, he added.
  The Advocate Aurora Health hospital system announced Friday that it was suspending a similar program that had already launched because of the national shortage of test kit supplies.
  A Fort Jackson, South Carolina, officer and a soldier have both tested positive for Covid-19, according to a statement Monday. 
  Both service members are in isolation and receiving the necessary medical care, and the Fort Jackson Public Health Team is working to identify anyone else who may have been exposed to the virus, according to the statement from Fort Jackson Commander Brig. Gen. Milford H. Beagle Jr. 
  Following the announcement of the two cases, Fort Jackson tweeted to visitors, urging them "to plan ahead and to expect delays at Gates 1, 2, and 4" as "the Department of the Army Security Guards are conducting a general health & welfare assessment, including a temperature check, of everyone entering Fort Jackson."
  
  
  First lady Melania Trump has been tested for coronavirus and is doing fine, President Trump said at Monday's briefing.
  This is the first time the President confirmed his wife was also tested for Covid-19.
  The President, Vice President Mike Pence and second lady Karen Pence have all been  tested for coronavirus , and all were negative. 
  “The first lady was tested on the same night as President Trump was tested, out of an abundance of caution. The test was negative,” White House press secretary Stephanie Grisham told CNN. Both Trumps were tested at the White House on March 13.
  In response to numerous reports of gatherings at parks and beaches over the weekend, San Diego will move forward with the closure of all parks, beaches, boardwalks, city lakes and trails, Mayor Kevin Faulconer announced at a news conference Monday. 
  Faulconer went on to say that San Diego police officers will be permitted to enforce the new rules with fines.
  
  
  Holland America’s Zaandam ship headed toward Florida is carrying 42 people — 13 guests and 29 crew — reporting flu-like symptoms.
  “Since it is flu season, and COVID-19 testing is not available on board, it is difficult to determine the cause of these elevated cases at this time,” according to a statement from the cruise line's website.
  The guests have been asked by the cruise line to remain in their staterooms until they have more information and as the ship sails north with the intention to arrive in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, on March 30.   
  Zaandam departed Buenos Aires, Argentina, on March 7,  prior to Holland America’s decision to suspend its global cruise operations for 30 days. The trip was scheduled to end in San Antonio, Chile, on March 21. 
  According to the statement, no one has been off the ship since March 14 after a stop in Puenta Arena, Chile, where guests were initially told they could disembark for flights, but then were not allowed.
  There are a total of 1,243 guests and 586 crew on board the ship.
  
  The national governing body of gymnastics in the United States said the organization is “advocating for the postponement” of this summer’s Olympic Games.
  In a tweet from the verified account of USA Gymnastics, the call to action states, “After considering the responses from athletes who participated in our survey & the 62% who were in favor of delaying the Games, we are adding our voice to the chorus advocating for postponement. We are grateful to have our athletes’ insight and input to guide this decision.”
  
  
  President Trump was pressed Monday about whether any of the doctors on the coronavirus task force have endorsed easing the federal guidelines.
  Trump said the doctors had “not endorsed, but we talk together and I think they’re OK with it and I’m OK with it."
  "But this could be a much bigger problem. This could create a much bigger problem than the problem that you start off with," he added.
  Trump went on to repeat what he said earlier in the briefing that “we can do both” as in easing federal guidelines in some places to boost the economy, but still focus on certain hotspots.
 