Good morning and welcome to  Fox News First .  Here's what you need to know as you start your day ...
  Trump makes good on threat, halts funding to World Health Organization over coronavirus response   President Trump announced at the White House coronavirus news briefing on Tuesday that the U.S. will immediately halt all funding for the World Health Organization, saying it had put "political correctness over lifesaving measures."
  The president said plans to ease the national economic shutdown were being finalized, and that he would be "authorizing governors to reopen their states to reopen as they see fit." At the same time, Trump made clear he was not going to put "any pressure" on governors to reopen.
  Trump read a long list of names of people in business, health care and sports who will advise him on how to restart the economy. "We have to get our sports back," Trump remarked. "I'm tired of watching baseball games that are 14 years old."  Click here for more on our top story 
  Other related developments: - Lawmakers push  back against Trump after he said he has ‘total’ authority - Trump says these  people will help advise him on reopening economy - Australia’s PM says  it’s ‘unfathomable’ that WHO supports reopening wet markets 
  Pence tells ‘Ingraham Angle’ that Trump will reopen economy at responsible moment Vice President Mike Pence told "The Ingraham Angle" in an exclusive interview Tuesday that President Trump will recommend loosening coronavirus-induced restrictions on the U.S. economy "at a responsible moment."
  "President Trump's made it very clear that he wants to reopen the American economy, but we want to do it at a time that is responsible, [and] can be safe for the American people," Pence said. "And we're going to be producing new guidance for states across the country to to know when that will be possible."
  Pence spoke to Ingraham hours after White House coronavirus task force member Dr. Anthony Fauci told the Associated Press that the Trump administration's May 1 target to loosen the federal coronavirus guidelines was "a bit overly optimistic."  Click here for more 
  Other related developments: 
- Trump, Cuomo clash  as NY governor threatens to defy order 
-  Trump talks about  reopening economy amid coronavirus fight takes toll on economy
  - To get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox,  sign up here . 
  Georgia state Democrat backs Trump for reelection, faces party backlash A state lawmaker in Georgia drew backlash from fellow Democrats on Tuesday after endorsing President Trump for reelection.
  State Rep. Vernon Jones, whose Atlanta-area district includes parts of DeKalb and Rockdale counties, argued that the president’s policies have helped him and other African-Americans.
  “It’s very simple to me,” Jones said, according to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. “President Trump’s handling of the economy, his support for historically black colleges and his criminal justice initiatives drew me to endorse his campaign.  Click here for more 
  Other related developments: 
-  Sanders predicts  Biden's campaign will move to the left 
-  MSNBC's Joy Reid rips  supporters for not backing Biden as 'privileged' white voters
  CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP 
  TODAY'S MUST-READS 
  America Together:  Send us your photos  and we'll tell your story as the nation battles coronavirus. Social distancing  may be needed, on and off, until 2022: Harvard Study Hospitals in 2 states  blast this 80s classic every time a coronavirus patient is discharged  Here's who will  not get coronavirus check
  THE LATEST FROM FOX BUSINESS Coronavirus seen  knocking retail sales in March Next wave of layoffs  hits staffers working from home as sales plunge Will coronavirus prompt  fresh exodus from high-tax states?
  #TheFlashback:  CLICK HERE  to find out what happened on "This Day in History." 
  SOME PARTING WORDS 
  Dr. Jay Bhattacharya, Stanford University professor of medicine, talks about the coronavirus death rate on "Tucker Carlson Tonight"
  Not signed up yet for Fox News First?  Click here  to find out what you're missing. 
  Click here  to find out what's on Fox News and Fox News Radio today! Fox News First is compiled by Fox News' Bryan Robinson. Thank you for making us your first choice in the morning! Stay safe, stay healthy and look out for one another  -- we will get through this coronavirus pandemic together. We'll see you in your inbox first thing Thursday morning. 
 