Liz Brown-Kaiser
  WASHINGTON — Republican House candidate Bob Good debuted his  first campaign ad Tuesday  in Virginia’s Fifth Congressional District, which a top Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC) aide was quick to label a “racist dog whistle.” 
  Good — a former Campbell County supervisor who previously worked for Liberty University — is running against Dr. Cameron Webb, a physician and public health expert. He would be  the first Black doctor in Congress  if elected. 
  “With chaos in our streets, Cameron Webb would make things worse. Webb would defund the police while crime spikes,” the TV spot’s narrator says over dissolving footage of destruction and protests into a photo of Webb.
  “Look past the smooth presentation. Webb’s real agenda: Government-run health care, higher taxes on the middle class, police defunded, crime unchecked,” the speaker continues, calling Webb “way too liberal.”
  The DCCC took issue with the ad shortly after it went live.
  “Let’s say it plainly, this #VA05 ad is a racist dog whistle running because Bob Good knows he can’t explain why voters should trust him over Cameron Webb to keep them safe during COVID-19,” DCCC communications director Cole Leiter  tweeted.  
  Let’s say it plainly, this  #VA05  ad is a racist dog whistle running because Bob Good knows he can’t explain why voters should trust him over Cameron Webb to keep them safe during COVID-19.  https://t.co/yFYkSjRVL4 
  Asked to respond to the DCCC’s accusation, the Good campaign told NBC News, "We categorically deny there is anything that is racist or a ‘dog whistle’ in the ad and would ask what specifically are the Democrats claiming would make it so?"
  Mia Ehrenberg, the communications director for the Webb campaign, said in a statement that the ad resorted to "distortions and fear-mongering" and that it "does not represent Dr. Webb's views on policy."  
  Webb has  spoken favorably about a "Medicare for All" type solution  for health care, but supports a  public option .
  The Democrat has not explicitly said that he wants to defund the police as the Good campaign’s new spot argues —  he has talked about  using federal funding to "drive the direction of law enforcement" and said that language about defunding the police is "coming from a deeply rooted sense that hey, all of this extra spending on police is actually part of the problem on policing and over-policing.”
  Webb has pointed to  his father’s work  for the Federal Law Enforcement Training Accreditation Board and Drug Enforcement Administration as proof of his  respect for law enforcement . 
  Good's campaign ad is airing in the Roanoke-Lynchburg media market in southwest Virginia, according to Advertising Analytics. The district spans much of central Virginia and includes Charlottesville.  
 