A San Francisco hospital opened a drive-up testing site this week for patients who might have contracted the coronavirus in an effort to reduce the risks inside medical facilities. The move came ahead of  President Donald Trump's national emergency declaration Friday , during which he called for "maximum flexibility" to address the crisis with innovations like drive-through testing. 
  Officials at Kaiser Permanente in Northern California said their members who meet the Centers for Disease Control & Prevention criteria — and who have doctor's order — will be given appointments at the drive-up center, and more sites are expected to open in the coming weeks.
  “The locations will enable Kaiser Permanente to safely test patients who may have COVID-19 in accordance with public health authority guidelines while providing full protection for our staff and minimizing potential COVID-19 exposure at Kaiser Permanente medical centers and in the community,” Michelle Gaskill-Hames, senior vice president for health plan and hospital operations said in a statement.
  What does coronavirus do to the body?: Everything to know about the infection process 
  The testing site, currently at the Kaiser Permanente French Campus in San Francisco, is staffed by health providers in protective equipment who will swab patients for COVID-19, flu, and respiratory virus testing while they remain in their car. The patients are then instructed to return home for self-isolation while they await test results, which can take between four and seven days.
  “We are working with county public health departments and commercial laboratories that offer COVID-testing,” Gaskill-Hames said.
  Hospital officials acknowledged that there are a limited supply of tests and that only high-risk patients who meet specific criteria will be able to get an appointment.
  California public health officials reported on Friday the fifth fatality in the state, which now has more than 277 official cases of the virus and an additional 11,400 people in self-isolation across the state. Roughly 60% of the confirmed cases of the illness are in the Bay Area. 
  Testing has been slow in California and across the U.S., even as public officials race to stop the spread of the virus. Gov. Gavin Newsom, who declared a state of emergency in California last week after the state's first death, expressed frustration over the number of usable test kits provided by the federal government to identify infected individuals across the state. Many of the tests provided by the CDC are missing a key component, causing delays and uncertainty. 
  More: Trump declared the coronavirus pandemic a national emergency. What does that mean? 
  The state currently has the capacity to conduct 8,227 tests in a population of roughly 39.6 million people. Close to 8 million people live in the Bay Area alone. 
  “I continue to reinforce that the tests are not complete, meaning in every case, the tests do not include the RNA extraction kits, the reagents, the chemicals, the solutions that are components of the broader test,” Newsom said during a press conference Thursday, likening the situation to purchasing a printer but forgetting to get ink.
  Amidst growing pressure and criticism over the federal government's response to the outbreak,  President Donald Trump declared a national emergency Friday , which will expand resources for local public health departments. Speaking from the White House Rose Garden, the president said this would free up to $50 billion in funding and enable the Department of Health and Human Services to increase testing capacity, including developing more drive-through testing sites. 
  "No resource will be spared," Trump said, adding that he is likely to be tested for the virus soon. 
  In the meantime, public health officials across the country are calling on all members of the public to start social distancing to help contain the spread of the virus. People are being asked to remain at home whenever possible and both state and local officials have issued orders to limit large gatherings. 
  In California, the governor has issued executive orders to postpone or cancel events with more than 250 people through the end of March and limit any meetings where people come within 6 feet of one another — a distance determined by researchers. Amusement parks have closed, sports seasons have been suspended, and many companies are allowing employees to work remotely.
  “Each of us has extraordinary power to slow the spread of this disease,” Newsom said. “Not holding that concert or community event can have cascading effects — saving dozens of lives and preserving critical health care resources that your family may need a month from now. The people in our lives who are most at risk — seniors and those with underlying health conditions — are depending on all of us to make the right choice.”
  Gabrielle Canon is a California Reporter for the USA Today Network. You can reach her at gcanon@gannett.com 
 