Good morning, NBC News readers.
  Wisconsin's top court struck down the governor's stay-at-home order, President Donald Trump criticized Dr. Anthony Fauci's testimony to Congress, and you think your coronavirus lockdown is extreme? Try being stranded at the Arctic Circle.
  Here's what we're watching this Thursday morning.
  The Wisconsin Supreme Court   during the   as "unlawful, invalid, and unenforceable" after finding that the state's health secretary exceeded her authority. The order had been set to run until May 26.
  Residents   that reopened as soon as the order was lifted.
  It's the latest showdown between state officials urging caution in the face of the public health emergency and those who see the restrictions as an infringement on their rights.
   Wednesday at comments Dr. Anthony Fauci made during a congressional hearing   the country too soon.
  "I was surprised by his answer, actually, because, you know,  , especially when it comes to schools," Trump said during a White House meeting with governors.
  Trump has repeatedly contradicted Fauci, the nation's top infectious disease expert, by painting a rosy picture of the country's response to the pandemic while he pushes for the economy to reopen.
  Meantime, a Health and Human Services whistleblower, Dr. Rick Bright, is set to warn Congress on Thursday that   without clear action against the coronavirus, according to prepared remarks obtained by NBC News.
  The  , according to NBC News' count. The global death toll is closing in on 300,000, according to Johns Hopkins University data.
  Here are some other developments:
  Workers and residents in a small Minnesota town who protested outside a meatpacking plant this week are demanding that it be   to protect the 1,100 people who work there.
  They also demand coronavirus testing for workers — a request that came after the plant said the 83 cases it reported on May 8 had ballooned to 194 cases by May 11.
  The plant in Cold Spring, owned by Pilgrim's Pride, is able to maintain its operations because of the Defense Production Act, which President Donald Trump  .
  But now, St. Cloud, a neighboring small town northwest of Minneapolis, is experiencing a massive spike in COVID-19 cases, according to   probably because of the meatpacking plant itself.
  "We want to work, but we have families. We are just human beings who want a better life," said one quarantined employee.
  The Trump administration is calling for nursing homes to test all residents and staff over the next two weeks as it prepares to "reopen" the country.
  But advocates and industry executives say that in many states,   and that the federal government isn't providing the money or means to do it.
  "There is no clarity on how this help is coming," said Katie Smith Sloan, CEO of LeadingAge, an association of nonprofit nursing home providers.
  For more than a generation, China — boasting the biggest manufacturing sector and the largest workforce in the world — has made economic growth seem easy.
  Over the last four decades, its economy has grown by an average of 10 percent per year, according to the World Bank.  .
  Crucially, China's strong economy has for years underpinned the political stability of the single-party state.
  But a prolonged downturn could fray trust between the ruling Communist Party and the country's 1.3 billion people.
  "It makes people lose faith in the system," said one China expert.
  With only reindeer and polar bears for neighbors, two women Arctic explorers are   with no clear end in sight.
  Sunniva Sorby, 59, and Hilde Fålulm Strøm, 52, co-founders of the Hearts in the Ice polar education campaign, set off in August for a Norwegian island located between the mainland and the North Pole to collect environmental data and raise awareness about climate change.
  But their return this month was canceled amid coronavirus travel restrictions.
  "There have been tears," Strøm told NBC News during a video call from her post in the Arctic Circle. "You are scared and you feel small in this big environment."
  Michigan coronavirus protesters shout "liberty!" — as right-wing rhetoric weaponizes freedom, columnist Marcie Bianco  .
  How being in quarantine finally helped one writer  .
  Whether staying at home has you working out more or less than usual, sore muscles can get anyone. Here are the  , according to experts.
  That's one way to jump for joy.
  The mayor of one New Zealand city celebrated its reopening to tourists after the easing of COVID-19 restrictions  .
  With a "be right back" shout and a leap, he sent a signal that tourism in his picturesque part of the world is back.
   as of Thursday.
  The reopening reflects the success New Zealand has experienced in its bold goal of eliminating the virus. More than 1,400 of the nearly 1,500 people who contracted the virus that causes COVID-19 have recovered, while 21 have died.
  Thanks for reading the Morning Rundown.
  Please send me any comments or questions you have on the newsletter: petra@nbcuni.com
  And if you find the Morning Rundown helpful, please share it. Newcomers can sign-up  
  Be safe and stay healthy, Petra Cahill
  Petra Cahill is a senior editor and writer for NBC News Digital. She writes NBC News' Morning Rundown newsletter. 
 