Many Americans who had assumed they could stay overseas till the pandemic ebbed now face an unnerving choice: either prepare for the possibility of being infected and treated in foreign hospitals, or risk infection on the way back to the United States.
  The U.S. State Department, warning that commercial flights from overseas may end in the coming days, is urging Americans abroad to grab any opportunity to board them.
  Flights organized by the State Department that have so far  returned 65,000 Americans from across the world  are winding down. Some continue in limited numbers, in areas like the Indian subcontinent and Africa. And American diplomats have helped commercial airlines cut through foreign regulations that have restricted flights in and out of some countries during the pandemic.
  [Update:  Unified in coronavirus lockdown, India splinters over reopening .] 
  But there still are at least 17,000 American citizens or legal residents abroad who have indicated they need help.
  Officials are suggesting that the risk of contracting the virus from traveling on any kind of flight is offset by disparities in health care systems.
  “You can come back to the United States where you are a citizen and you have access to health care and you have access to an infrastructure that is still intact,” said Dr. William Walters, the State Department’s deputy chief medical officer. But by hunkering down, in developing countries in particular, where the virus has yet to peak, “you will be an American citizen in a foreign country that didn’t have great infrastructure to begin with.”
  And students studying abroad in the United States have been stranded with dwindling financial resources.
  Many of the more than a million international students who left their home countries to study in the United States had been living in college dorms. They were left to find new housing after campuses shutdown.
  A substantial number of them are also watching their financial lives fall apart. Visa restrictions prevent them from working off campus, but campuses are now closed. And while some come from families wealthy enough to pay for their housing or whisk them home, many others had already been struggling to cobble together tuition fees, which tend to be much higher for international students. And many currencies’ values have collapsed relative to the U.S. dollar.
  Some international students say they have had to turn to food banks. Others are couch surfing in the friends’ homes, but don’t know how long they will be welcome. Those who were able to fly home before international borders closed are now not sure they will be able to come back to finish their studies.
  Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez said on Saturday evening that Spaniards would be allowed outdoors to take a stroll or exercise as of May 2 if the country’s coronavirus numbers continued to improve over the coming week.
  In a televised address, Mr. Sánchez didn’t detail what limits to sports would still apply. But his announcement came as Spanish children prepared to go outdoors on Sunday for the first time since the lockdown came into force in mid-March. They will be able to stroll for one hour within one kilometer of their homes when accompanied by an adult.
  Mr. Sánchez also said that the easing Spain’s lockdown would be “gradual and asymmetrical, but coordinated.” Some regional and local leaders ague that their areas have already contained the epidemic, and they are pushing to reduce lockdown measures locally ahead of any national easing.
  Spain reported a slight uptick in its daily death toll with 378 dead on Saturday, compared to 367 on Friday. But the country crossed a significant milestone this week by registering more hospital recoveries than new coronavirus cases.
  The country’s lockdown has been extended until May 9. But some local and regional politicians have stressed that the daily number of coronavirus fatalities has fallen to below 10 a day in half of Spain’s 17 regions. The push for local easing of restrictions has particularly come from islands as well as southern regions whose hospitals were never overwhelmed with Covid-19 patients.
  As Brazil’s coronavirus contagion accelerated this past week,  with nearly 53,000 confirmed cases and 3,670 deaths,  speculation intensified over how much longer President Jair Bolsonaro would last in power.
  In recent weeks, Mr. Bolsonaro’s strikingly  dismissive response to the coronavirus  pandemic, which he has called a “measly cold” that cannot be allowed to throttle economic growth, generated calls for impeachment at home and bewilderment abroad.
  He was already struggling to govern effectively when, on Friday, his star cabinet minister resigned with an  explosive speech  that basically called his soon-to-be former boss a criminal.
  Mr. Bolsonaro became a president without a political party in November, after falling out with leaders of the Social Liberal Party, which had backed his presidential bid. And several political allies — including two of Mr. Bolsonaro’s sons — are under investigation in a series of criminal and legislative inquiries.
  Given those challenges, which have left Mr. Bolsonaro deeply isolated, the dramatic exit of his justice minister was seen by critics and supporters of the president as a potentially destructive blow to his grip on power during a public health crisis and a recession.
  And, while several Latin American leaders have seen a bounce in public opinion as they imposed strict quarantine measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus, Mr. Bolsonaro’s popularity has dropped amid what critics call a flailing response.
  As he headed off the ice after playing a hockey game in an amateur tournament in late March, the leader of Belarus brushed aside reporters’ anxious questions about the coronavirus pandemic.
  “There are no viruses here,” said the Belarusian president, Aleksandr G. Lukashenko, gesturing to the crowded arena. “Do you see any of them flying around? I don’t see them either.”
  At a time when some countries, like Germany and Denmark, having tamped down the initial outbreak of the virus, are experimenting with cautious openings of businesses and schools, Belarus is an outlier. It never imposed any restrictions at all.
  Restaurants, coffee shops and movie theaters remain open. Last weekend, churches were packed for Orthodox Easter. Professional soccer is in full swing, though the roaring crowds of earlier this month have thinned. In the capital, Minsk, the subways are crowded. Most businesses require workers to show up.
  Neither the raw numbers of infections, nearly 9,000, nor the total deaths, 63, suggest that Belarus’s epidemic is grossly disproportionate, though Ukraine with four times the population has fewer reported cases.
  However, few people believe the official tallies; there is some evidence that the true numbers are being suppressed.
  Without a free press or any viable opposition parties, Belarusians have little recourse to challenge the response. Caught in the grip of an autocrat whom critics are calling one of the world’s foremost virus deniers, they have little choice but to accept official policy: The economy will keep chugging along, whatever the cost in human lives.
  The Metropolitan Opera’s At-Home Gala — a worldwide relay of live streamed performances that, in contrast to opera’s usual grandeur, was filmed using only household devices — was presented at  metopera.org  and will remain available until Sunday evening Eastern time.
  It has an only-in-opera level of aspiration and difficulty: a roster of more than 40 of the company’s starriest singers, plus members of the orchestra and chorus, performing live across nine time zones. Among them are Lisette Oropesa, in Baton Rouge, La.; Anna Netrebko, in Vienna; and Piotr Beczala, in what he described to Peter Gelb, the Met’s general manager, as a village at the end of the earth in Poland.
  The Met halted performances on March 12 in response to the coronavirus pandemic — and eventually canceled the remainder of its season.
  Mr. Gelb — who hosted from New York along with Yannick Nézet-Séguin, the Met’s music director, who is in Montreal — said that the idea came about because “I am determined to keep the Met in the consciousness of the broader public, and I am determined to use any possible means to do that.”
  Since the opera house went dark, it has posted a free stream from its vast Met Opera On Demand library every night. (Mr. Gelb said that in the past five weeks, the number of paid subscribers to that on-demand service has doubled, to 30,000.) Each stream is accompanied by a “Donate Now” button; the At-Home Gala has one, too, though Mr. Gelb was quick to emphasize that this is not “a PBS telethon.”
  As the drumbeat grows for transparency about the secretive group guiding Britain’s response to the coronavirus — the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies, or SAGE — the government acknowledged that Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s most senior aide, Dominic Cummings, has listened in on the panel’s meetings.
  But a spokesman for Downing Street said on Saturday that Mr. Cummings was not a member of the group and did not influence policy.
  “No. 10 officials and officials from other departments attend/dial in to SAGE to listen to its discussions and occasionally ask questions, which is essential at a time the government is dealing with a global pandemic,” Downing Street said in a statement.
  On Saturday Britain’s Department of Health and Social Care said that the number of deaths in the country had surpassed 20,000 and that the number of confirmed cases is nearing 150,000.  Britain is the fifth country to record that many deaths , though its tally does not include deaths outside of hospitals.
  “It’s a very sad day for the nation; 20,000 deaths is clearly 20,000 too many,” Stephen Powis, the medical director of the National Health Service in England, said on Saturday at a news conference.
  Opposition leaders have demanded more transparency from the group, whose members are largely anonymous and whose meetings are held in private. The British government says it is being “guided by the science” coming from the group, but critics say the science is unclear.
  Jonathan Ashworth, who oversees the opposition the Labour Party’s health policy, called on the government to publish the minutes of the panel’s meetings. “We need to understand whether Mr. Cummings was contributing to the debate or influencing the debate,” he told Sky News on Saturday.
  The developments came as  leaked cabinet briefings to The Guardian  newspaper indicated that ministers were warned last year that Britain risked facing an influenza-type outbreak and that the country needed a robust plan to deal with it. A possible pandemic was at the top of a confidential annual national security risk assessment signed off by the government’s chief scientific adviser.
  In other developments in Britain:
  More than 100 people in Berlin were arrested on Saturday in a demonstration against coronavirus lockdown measures.
  Protesters, some of whom kept a distance from others and wore masks, shouted “I want my life back” and held signs reading “Protect constitutional rights” among other phrases,  according to Reuters . Protesters also passed out newspapers entitled “Democratic Resistance,” which claimed the coronavirus was an attempt to grab power by spreading fear.
  Thilo Cablitz, a police spokesman, said permission was granted for newspaper distribution, but no permission had been given for the protest. Earlier this month, Germany’s Constitutional Court had ruled that people have the right to protests if they follow social-distancing guidelines.
  In March, Germany went into lockdown to slow the spread of the coronavirus. But on Monday, smaller stores  were allowed to reopen  for the first time in nearly a month. People are advised to follow social distancing guidelines until May 3.
  According to data  gathered by The New York Times , Germany is the fourth leading country in coronavirus infections with more than 152,000 cases and 5,500 deaths.
  The governments of the United States, France and the Netherlands are funneling more taxpayer dollars into airlines to offset the devastating fallout from the coronavirus on the global travel industry.
  The U.S. Treasury Department said on Saturday that it had given an additional $9.5 billion to American carriers looking for help to pay employees. The funds, which are part of the $2.2 trillion stimulus package Congress approved last month, brings the total aid to the industry to $12.4 billion.
  The department also enabled airlines to tap into another $17 billion lawmakers set aside for businesses considered crucial to national security.
  France and the Netherlands are providing a bailout of 10 billion euros, about $10.8 billion, to salvage Air France-KLM, one of Europe’s biggest airlines.
  Air France-KLM will receive a €4 billion bank loan backed by the French state and a €3 billion direct government loan, France’s finance minister, said late Friday. The Dutch government said it would provide an additional €2 billion to €4 billion in public aid.
  The infusion falls short of nationalizing the airline, in which the French and Dutch states each own a 14 percent share. The European Commission — the executive branch of the European Union, which has thrown out restrictions on state support because of the deep economic downturn — swiftly approved the bailout.
  The World Health Organization has warned against using coronavirus antibody tests as a basis for issuing “immunity passports” to allow people to travel or return to work.
  Laboratory tests that detect antibodies to the coronavirus “need further validation to determine their accuracy and reliability,” the global agency  said in a statement  on Friday. Inaccurate tests may falsely label people who have been infected as negative, or may falsely label people who have not been infected as positive, it noted.
  Countries like Italy and Chile have weighed providing “immunity passports” to let those people who have recovered from the virus return to work, in an effort to begin easing lockdown restrictions and stem the economic fallout.
  In the United States, scientists working around the clock in shifts managed to compare 14 antibody tests on the market, and the  news wasn’t good . Only one test delivered no false positives — and just two others did well 99 percent of the time.
  The W.H.O. said it supported the testing of medical workers to determine whether they have antibodies, as that data can add to the understanding of how the coronavirus behaves. But it said that most such tests currently “are not designed to determine whether those people are immune to secondary infections.”
  The assessment came as the W.H.O. held a virtual meeting on Friday in which global heads of state vowed to cooperate on coronavirus vaccine research and treatments — though neither the United States nor China joined the initiative.
  Although leaders like Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President Emmanuel Macron of France were vague in their pledges, the absence of any U.S. representative at the meeting was the latest sign of a withdrawal of the world’s biggest economy in tackling the coronavirus on a global scale.
  Migrants and others sent about $689 billion in global remittances in 2018, according to the World Bank — money that relatives and friends back home depend on to survive.
  But as millions of migrant workers see their hours cut or lose their jobs because of the economic slowdown from the pandemic, the World Bank said this week that global remittances were projected to plummet about 20 percent this year, in “the sharpest decline in recent history.”
  And that could have far-reaching effects in some developing and poorer nations like Mexico, which was the third-largest recipient of remittances in 2018 — after India and China, according to the World Bank — and the largest recipient of money sent from the United States.
  Amid the U.S. economic slowdown in recent weeks, millions of undocumented Mexicans in the United States, like other immigrant populations, have been left vulnerable without job security and unemployment benefits.
  A major decrease in remittances could cause not just economic duress, but also political and social tension, said Roy Germano, who teaches international relations at New York University.
  “I don’t think governments want to see this money contract, because it functions as a sort of de facto social welfare system,” said Mr. Germano, the author of “Outsourcing Welfare,” a book about remittances. “In that way, they take pressure off governments to provide welfare assistance and guarantee a certain standard of living.”
  “Composition VI,” an abstract painting by the Russian master Wassily Kandinsky, has now been restaged in the messy room of a Connecticut teenager.
  His mother, Julia Vasilenko, a piano teacher, arranged cymbals, a guitar and a toy boat among the room’s contents  to symbolize Kandinsky’s musical and marine motifs . A blue latex glove reminds the viewer of the present day.
  People sheltering in place are seeking new ways to connection online, and amid the pandemic’s bleakness, some report a surge in creativity. Maybe this is why a  Facebook group  featuring lo-fi recreations of famous paintings has more than half a million members, just a few weeks after it was created.
  The group — Izoizolyacia, combining the Russian words for “visual arts” and “isolation” — was started in Moscow by a project manager at a tech company. Its predominant language is Russian, but more than a third of its members live outside  Russia .
  The copying-artworks gag is not new, and several museums — including the  Getty in Los Angeles  and the  Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam  — are encouraging homebound art fans to send in photos of efforts to bring their favorite paintings to life. But in terms of Facebook followers, at least, Izoizolyacia’s audience appears to be the most engaged.
  Even as wedding halls and hotels have shuttered, honeymoons evaporated and curfews slammed down, the coronavirus has not quelled couples’ ardor in Cairo. And like many others across the Middle East, they pushed ahead with weddings this past week.
  In Egypt, some couples shrank their ambitions to small family gatherings. Others flouted public health restrictions with secret parties and guerrilla photo shoots.
  Their haste stemmed from a desire to beat the deadline of Ramadan, which started Friday. The holy month is a solemn period when weddings are rare.
  Some countries are adapting. In the United Arab Emirates, hurried couples can now obtain wedding licenses online. In Kuwait, marriage courts offer services by special appointment — though divorces are unavailable.
  In Saudi Arabia, some couples have skipped the once-ironclad tradition of holding a wedding celebration before moving in together, even if they are already legally wed.
  Such scenes of determination in the middle of a major health crisis stem from a simple truth: Marriage may be important everywhere, but in the Middle East it often cannot wait.
  In most Arab countries, marriage confers independence, the right to live together, cash gifts, a culturally approved sex life and, for women, heightened status in societies still heavily tilted in favor of men.
  With virus infections in Egypt at the low end of the curve, about 3,900 cases for 100 million people, some wedding-goers seemed to believe they were invincible.
  “This pandemic can’t touch us,” a reveler named Islam said as his wedding party scrambled to take photos on a Cairo bridge at a moment when the police were absent. The groom, in a tuxedo and sneakers, posed with the bride, in a white dress.
  Then everyone bundled into three cars and took off.
  President Trump’s daily news briefings on the coronavirus outbreak are  inflicting grave damage on his political standing, Republicans believe , and his recent remarks about combating the virus with  sunlight and disinfectant  were a breaking point for a number of senior party officials. New surveys show Mr. Trump trailing significantly in battleground states like Michigan and Pennsylvania, and he is even narrowly behind in must-win Florida.
  Mr. Trump’s suggestion that an injection of disinfectant could help combat the coronavirus prompted warnings on Friday from health officials across the country, as well as  the makers of Clorox and Lysol  and several Fox News personalities.
  The White House spent much of Friday trying to walk back Mr. Trump’s remarks, which he made at Thursday’s press briefing. Vice President Mike Pence, the head of the White House coronavirus task force, abruptly ended Friday’s daily briefing shortly after it began, and the president took no questions. Now, Mr. Trump’s advisers are encouraging him to skip the daily briefings or field fewer questions from the reporters, and Mr. Trump himself said on Twitter on Saturday that they were not in his best interest.
  “What is the purpose of having White House News Conferences when the Lamestream Media asks nothing but hostile questions, & then refuses to report the truth or facts accurately,” Mr. Trump said on Twitter. “They get record ratings, & the American people get nothing but Fake News. Not worth the time & effort!”
  Here’s what else is happening in the U.S.:
  John Houghton, a climate scientist and leading figure in the United Nations panel that brought the threat of climate change to the world’s attention and received a Nobel Prize, died on April 15 in Dolgellau, Wales. He was 88.
  The cause was complications of the novel coronavirus, according to his granddaughter Hannah Malcolm, who  announced the death, at a hospital, on Twitter .
  A key participant in the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Dr. Houghton was the lead editor of the organization’s first three reports, issued in 1990, 1995 and 2001. With each report, the evidence underpinning global warming  and the role humans play in causing it grew more ineluctable ,  and the calls for international action became more pressing.  The group  received the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize jointly with Al Gore , the former vice president and climate campaigner.
  Speaking about climate change in 1994 , Dr. Houghton said that delay served no one. “We should start to do what we can do now and also begin to plan to do more,” he said, and “not wait 10 or 20 years till things are more clear.”  Read the full obituary. 
  With a population of about one million people and an area of 9,000 square miles, Djibouti is one of Africa’s smallest countries. But this week the Horn of Africa nation was listed as having the highest prevalence of coronavirus cases, 986, in Africa.
  The figure reflects mass coronavirus testing in the country. But officials have also spoken of people not adhering to social distancing and hygiene rules.
  The state has shut its borders, suspended international flights, and closed schools and all places of worship.
  “What we are asking of you is to save yourselves, to save your siblings, your mothers and fathers and the old people,” President Ismail Omar Guelleh  said  in a recent televised speech. “I ask you to stay at home.”
  Djibouti, at the southern entrance to the Red Sea, has taken advantage of its location at a busy shipping route and its relative stability in a volatile region to increase its geostrategic relevance. It is home to several foreign military bases, including one of the United States’ largest foreign installations and China’s first overseas military base. As the coronavirus has spread, these military installations have heightened their safety measures.
  On April 23, Maj. Gen. Michael D. Turello, commander of the Combined Joint Task Force Horn of Africa, declared a public health emergency for the U.S. personnel under his authority in Djibouti.
  “Combating Covid-19 is my top priority,” he said in a statement, referring to the disease caused by the virus. “By declaring a public health emergency, it keeps our forces, and those of our host nation partner, as healthy and as safe as possible.”
  A park in Okinawa City, Japan, has mowed down sprawling lily fields that usually draw thousands of people, in an effort to prevent visitors from gathering and spreading the coronavirus.
  Fears of the virus and a nationwide state of emergency declared this month did not deter people from visiting the Okinawa Comprehensive Athletic Park, where its lilies were approaching full bloom. In response, the park clipped 10,000 of its 16,000 lilies on Friday.
  “Our staff spent a whole year growing them,” Seiji Fukushima, the park’s director, said on Saturday. “They were crying as they cut them off.”
  Despite the emergency declarations this month, many residents across the country still visited beaches, parks and restaurants, raising concerns about its measures to curb the outbreak. Mr. Fukushima said many service members of the U.S. military bases in Okinawa Prefecture had visited or jogged in the park despite social distancing rules, and residents had complained that many of them did not wear masks.
  The flowers are usually harvested in mid-May, when bulbs are collected and stored for planting later. The park said that the cropped lilies had been distributed to people and that it would use the opportunity to improve its soil this year.
  As of Saturday, Japan had more than 13,500 confirmed coronavirus cases and 341 deaths.
  In Israel, where nearly everyone has someone to mourn from wars and continuing conflicts, Memorial Day — which is observed from Monday at sundown until Tuesday at sundown — ordinarily draws hundreds of thousands to national cemeteries.
  But fears that crowds could spread the coronavirus have prompted the government to plead with people to stay away.
  “It causes me immense pain that I won’t be with my brother on Memorial Day, but I know the right thing is to stay home,” said Frida Shniderman, 72, referring to her sibling, Meir Rozenchtroch, who was killed in the wake of a conflict between Israel and Syria in 1974. “Cemeteries get very crowded every year. It’s simply too risky to go now.”
  Defense Minister Naftali Bennett said at a news conference that observing Memorial Day as in past years would create “a coronavirus ticking time bomb.” About one and a half million Israelis usually visit burial grounds across the country during the holiday, he said.
  Some Israelis, however, have vowed to go to the cemeteries, arguing that they would not threaten public health as long as they maintain social distancing measures.
  “My family and I will go,” said Moshe Muskal, 64, whose son Rafanel was killed in conflict between Israel and the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah in 2006. “This day is so important to us.”
  While the government decided that it would not permit Israelis to go to cemeteries, the police will not use force to stop them, officials have said.
  Israel had recorded more than 15,000 cases of the virus as of Saturday, and nearly 200 deaths.
  Vanuatu, a Pacific island nation of 300,000 people, gave sports fans worldwide what they’d been craving on Saturday: something to watch, live, with the outcome unknown.
  Cricket may not be everyone’s cup of tea, but the Vanuatu Cricket Association  livestreamed  its Women’s Super League final, inviting sports fans everywhere to take a break from the recorded footage that many have had to settle for during the pandemic.
  “We thought it’s our duty to provide the world with some live sport,” said Shane Deitz, the chief executive of the Vanuatu Cricket Association and a former player for the Australian national team. “It’s one of the only live sports around the world at the moment. We can showcase a bit of cricket for everyone who is in lockdown.”
  Vanuatu, like many other small Pacific nations, has managed to keep the coronavirus from spreading, or even arriving, if official figures are correct.
  The country went into lockdown late last month as a precaution. After it was hit by a major cyclone on April 6, the lockdown was lifted so that people could recover and rebuild.
  During the match on Saturday, small crowds of fans could be seen surrounding the pitch, standing or sitting a few feet apart, clearly enjoying the sight. Comments on the cricket association’s Facebook page, where the livestream was shown, thanked Vanuatu for sharing.
  India eased lockdown restrictions on Friday in some parts of the country, allowing markets to reopen in rural areas and outside known hot zones, and alleviating financial stress for tens of millions of people.
  After Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a nationwide lockdown last month to contain the coronavirus, most businesses shuttered across the country, except for those selling food, medicine and other essential items.
  In an  announcement  on Friday night, India’s Ministry of Home Affairs said it would allow shops in rural areas to reopen, except liquor stores and those in malls or other large complexes.
  Neighborhood and stand-alone shops in urban areas could reopen if they were outside hot zones, but markets were to remain shut, the ministry said.
  The economic toll of India’s lockdown, which is in place until at least May 3, has devastated the economy and forced millions of people to rely on government food handouts and other subsidies.
  India has about 24,000 known cases of the coronavirus, and nearly 800 deaths.
  President Trump has  promised in a tweet  to provide ventilators to Indonesia, where a rising number of coronavirus cases threatens to overwhelm the country’s poorly equipped and understaffed health care system.
  “Just spoke to my friend, President Joko Widodo of the Republic of Indonesia,” Mr. Trump wrote on Friday. “Asking for Ventilators, which we will provide. Great cooperation between us!”
  In reply, Mr. Joko’s spokesman, Fadjroel Rachman,  tweeted  on Saturday, “Thank you very much for great cooperation between the USA and the Republic of Indonesia Mr. President.”
  Indonesia, with a population of 270 million, is the world’s fourth largest country but has only about 8,400 ventilators to help patients with the coronavirus, which has spread to all 34 provinces.
  Indonesia has reported 720 deaths from the coronavirus, the second highest toll in East Asia after China. But some officials say many more deaths have gone unreported.
  Mr. Trump also said the United States would send ventilators to three Latin American countries — Ecuador, El Salvador and Honduras — that are reeling from the pandemic. He did not say how many ventilators would be sent to any of the four countries or when they would arrive.
  Ecuador’s largest city, Guayaquil, has been especially hard hit. Hospitals and clinics have been so overwhelmed that they have been unable to treat some patients. Bodies have been found  abandoned on sidewalks  and slumped in wheelchairs.
  The Honduran president, Juan Orlando Hernández, also spoke with Mr. Trump and requested help with ventilators and testing. He said he had also asked for assistance in securing debt relief for poor countries and financial aid from international lenders.
  In a  tweet  on Friday evening about his conversation with the Honduran president, Mr. Trump said, “We work closely together on the Southern Border. Will be helping him with his request for Ventilators and Testing.”
 