(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  sign-up .)
  As countries in Europe clamp down on large gatherings — with Austria, Spain and France limiting residents’ comings and goings to necessities like buying food, going to work and seeking medical care — a clearer picture of the ramifications of the coronavirus pandemic is emerging.
  For weeks, we’ve heard warnings of disruptions to the economy and seen intense volatility in the markets and delayed shipments from China. But now a standstill in so many of the activities we love has gone global.
  Sporting events, from basketball to baseball to soccer, have been canceled, and speculation abounds about whether the Tokyo Olympics can really go on; museums have been shuttered; restaurants, bars and hotels in many parts of the world are either on curfew, at limited capacity or closed.
  Some are forced to rework their business models; others have no remedies.
  Not since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001,  has a crisis hit much of the U.S. economy so quickly .
  Here’s what you need to know about your money and the outbreak .
  And here are  the latest updates  and  maps of where the virus has spread .
  Around the world: 
  Resources:  Here’s  how to practice social distancing  and  how to clean your phone . The Times is providing free access to much of our  coronavirus coverage ; our  Coronavirus Briefing newsletter , like all of our newsletters, is free.
  A year has passed since 51 people died in a terrorist attack on two mosques in New Zealand. Zulfirman Syah, above, was a hero and a victim — diving over his 3-year-old son to save his life, and taking bullets in his back and groin.
  Our reporter and photographer  visited him, his wife and their son over the past 12 months . The family’s searing experience points to forces the world has yet to contain: guns, technology and white supremacy.
  Israel:  In a first, all 15 members of the combined slate of predominantly Arab parties joined lawmakers from Jewish parties in recommending the ex-army chief  Benny Gantz over Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu .
  U.S. presidential race:  Former Vice President Joe Biden and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont will face off in a debate in a few hours in Washington — without a studio audience.  Follow along at nytimes.com .
  Snapshot:  Above, two residents of the outskirts of Blagoveschensk, Russia, who live with their cats, mice and rabbit. They are part of the Kremlin’s plan to hand out plots of land in Russia’s Far East,    which  has attracted some unusually freethinking settlers .
  What we’re reading:  This science writer’s musings on the North Pole , published in Scientific American’s Opinion section. “It’s very soothing to read about a place where time doesn’t exist,” writes Millie Tran, our deputy off-platform editor.
  Cook:  Melissa Clark’s  roasted chicken thighs with winter squash , “a dish you’ll make again and again, I bet,” says  Sam Sifton, our Food editor .
  Read:  “Until the End of Time,” a collection of cosmological contemplations by the physicist Brian Greene, is among  11 new books we recommend .
  Listen:  Our reporter spent three days with the musician  Francis Farewell Starlite , a reclusive muse to Kanye West, Bon Iver and Drake.
  Smarter Living:  If you procrastinate, it might be your emotions getting in the way — so  managing those emotions  could help more than trying to manage your time.
  Karen Weise, a Times technology reporter, chronicled a Seattle-area family  adapting to online instruction  while their schools are closed to slow coronavirus spread. We talked to her about coping with disruptions. 
  How did the Peistrup family manage the first day of online school? 
  They were surprised it went pretty well. Erin Peistrup said she was fortunate because she is a stay-at-home mom. This was a hands-on experience. But the kids found their rhythm during the day. There was time for Erin to coordinate Little League and do other tasks. They also arranged for their children to play with neighbors during lunch and after classes.
  How did the school district get ready for home instruction? 
  The prior week, they let students borrow laptops and internet hotspots, taught them how to set up passwords and advised families to log in and make sure the passwords worked. They closed down for a day to make sure teachers could use the system, too.
  What about families who can’t stay home? 
  Around the region, people are starting to build informal networks of adult supervision. For parents who can’t be home during the day, I’ve heard stories of people offering to have classmates come to their house for remote learning. And the state has been looking to provide child care for young kids who are truly in need.
  How is your family coping with the coronavirus outbreak in the Seattle area? 
  Life has become much more circumscribed. People aren’t going out much. We are getting used to this being the new normal. I have a toddler and even he picks up on bits of conversation. My family is talking about what happens if our day care closes. Probably some combination of help from neighbors and staggering work shifts. This is what’s potentially coming for people, businesses and schools elsewhere in the country.
 