Two years ago, Adem Bunkeddeko and Suraj Patel were part of a  crop of young New York Democrats  who tried to ride the wave of insurgency that formed after President Trump’s election to victory over longtime House incumbents.
  The best-known of the group, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, became the youngest woman ever to be elected to Congress  after she upset Representative Joseph Crowley,  the No. 4 Democrat in the House at the time.
  Mr. Bunkeddeko and Mr. Patel could not replicate Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s stunning victory, but their performances suggested they might be heard from again.
  On Tuesday, both will take a second shot: Mr. Bunkeddeko is renewing his challenge against Representative Yvette Clarke of Brooklyn, while Mr. Patel will try once more to unseat Representative Carolyn B. Maloney of Manhattan.
  The primaries come at a tumultuous time politically that makes both men’s second runs for Congress seemingly more daunting.
  Although they enjoy more name recognition this year, there are now multiple challengers in each race, potentially diluting the anti-establishment vote. The coronavirus pandemic has also stalled the type of grass-roots campaigning that insurgents rely on against incumbents.
  Nonetheless, the outbreak, which has underscored racial disparities in health care, and the killing in police custody of George Floyd have stirred nationwide calls for racial justice and other changes that Mr. Bunkeddeko and Mr. Patel, like many challengers, hope will carry them to upset victories.
  “This is a change election, even more than two years ago,” Mr. Patel said in an interview at his East Village headquarters. “You can feel it.”
  Other incumbent House Democrats from  New York  are also facing vigorous primary challenges. They include Representative Jerrold Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, which led the impeachment proceedings against President Trump. Mr. Nadler will face  Lindsey Boylan , a former economic development adviser to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, and Jonathan Herzog, a former member of Andrew Yang’s presidential campaign staff.
  Mr. Nadler, 73, said he had been a progressive leader for decades, citing his opposition to the 1994 crime bill, which increased mass incarceration, and the Patriot Act, which expanded the federal government’s surveillance powers. He is also a primary co-sponsor of the  House Democrats’ police reform bill .
  “It’s just a political thing,” Mr. Nadler said of the insurgent challenges he and his colleagues face. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s victory “showed that longtime incumbents can be vulnerable,” he added. “Now, anybody who has any ambition — even if no realistic chance of winning an election or no reason to run — suddenly decided to run.”
  Ms. Boylan has criticized Mr. Nadler as not being progressive enough. She said that his role as a manager in the  impeachment proceedings  was too dependent on the whims of party leaders and had lagged behind the desires of constituents.
  When she first announced that she would challenge Mr. Nadler, Ms. Boylan, 36, said that voters had asked her why she wanted to displace the chair of such a powerful committee.
  “There was this idea that Jerry was going to save us from Donald Trump,” she said. “Fast forward a year, and Jerry Nadler has not saved us from Donald Trump.”
  For Mr. Patel, the impact of the virus has special resonance: He was ill for a month after contracting it in March.
  Mr. Patel, 36, has highlighted Ms. Maloney’s questioning of whether vaccinations cause autism in children, a theory that has been widely rejected by scientific experts. Because a coronavirus vaccine will be key to the country’s recovery, Mr. Patel has suggested that Ms. Maloney, 74, is not the right person to help handle the response to the pandemic.
  Mr. Patel, an adjunct business professor at New York University who helps to run his family’s hotel business has also questioned whether Ms. Maloney is the best candidate at a time when Americans are grappling with how to abolish entrenched racism. He has also characterized her  campaign advertisements  as racist.
  One of Ms. Maloney’s ads questioned  Mr. Patel’s use of Tinder banking , the campaign practice of using fake profiles on the dating app to try to engage voters, during his 2018 challenge, accusing him of “taking advantage of women.”
  On a website called  nocreepsforcongress.com , Ms. Maloney’s campaign has also highlighted remarks Mr. Patel made on social media about how a 40-year-old dating a 17-year-old was “not that bad.”
  Mr. Patel said the remarks were meant as a joke.
  “Carolyn Maloney is a vicious, vindictive person who uses racist tropes to attack a brown man running against her because it makes her uncomfortable,” Mr. Patel said, adding that she had “weaponized my race against me.”
  In an interview, Ms. Maloney defended the advertisement as “his own words, his own statement.”
  On Monday, Mr. Patel filed a complaint with the House’s Office of Congressional Ethics, asking that it investigate the ads, which he said were “deliberately misleading” and a “racist” violation of ethical conduct rules, according to a letter reviewed by The New York Times.
  Also running in the primary are Lauren Ashcraft, a democratic socialist and comedian, and Peter Harrison, a housing activist.
  Ms. Maloney, who said she had recently tested negative for the coronavirus, said that she and her children had all gotten the standard vaccinations and that she did not question the safety of vaccines.
  During the pandemic, Ms. Maloney has introduced legislation to forgive loans taken out by front-line medical workers and to create a fund to compensate essential workers in all industries, similar to one that was created after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.
  “This election is incredibly different than last time,” Ms. Maloney said. “We are facing two pandemics, coronavirus and police brutality, but we have the opportunity to actually get things done to change it.”
  In his race, Mr. Bunkeddeko has used both crises to renew his 2018 campaign message that Ms. Clarke has not done enough for the district. Ms. Clarke, the daughter of Una S.T. Clarke, a former New York City councilwoman, is part of a political dynasty that must end, he said.
  “We have Covid-19 and an awakening on police violence,” said Mr. Bunkeddeko, the son of Ugandan war refugees and a Harvard Business School graduate who most recently worked as the strategy and innovation officer for the nonprofit Local Initiatives Support Corporation. “My argument has only intensified.”
  Mr. Bunkeddeko, 32, has raised more money than he did in 2018, and he has garnered more endorsements. Representative Hakeem Jeffries, a Brooklyn Democrat who now ranks No. 5 among the party’s House members, is not one of them. He has endorsed Ms. Clarke.
  Mr. Jeffries recalled how, in 2018, he advised Mr. Bunkeddeko to run for the State Legislature against a member of the now-defunct Independent Democratic Conference, a group of Democrats who had aligned with Republicans.
  “His answer to me was, ‘I think Yvette Clarke is easier to beat,’” Mr. Jeffries said. “It’s not clear to me what track record of accomplishment he’s presenting to the voters.”
  Ms. Clarke, 55, defeated Mr. Bunkeddeko by 1,800 votes, or six percentage points, two years ago. But this year’s election includes three other challengers, making Mr. Bunkeddeko’s task even tougher.
  Ms. Clarke and Ms. Bunkeddeko are united in their criticism of one of the other candidates in the race, Chaim Deutsch, a City Council member from Brooklyn who is cultivating voters in Russian and Orthodox Jewish enclaves in Crown Heights and the southern part of the district.
  Mr. Deutsch, 51, did not attend two debates because he said he was too busy with city budget negotiations and helping constituents affected by the virus. But he made his presence in the race felt when he ran an ad showing scenes from the unrest that arose amid the city’s recent protests, including boarded-up stores, looters and a burning police vehicle. An image of an Orthodox Jewish person being punched was included at the end.
  Ms. Clarke compared the ad to the “propaganda that comes from the White House.” Mr. Bunkeddeko sent a fund-raising email saying that he was better suited to take on the kind of “fear mongering” that he said Mr. Deutsch’s ad reflected.
  “Was my ad dramatic?” Mr. Deutsch said. “Yes. Did it highlight the extremes? Sure, it did. Was it racist? Absolutely not.” Mr. Deutsch has been endorsed the Police Benevolent Association, but he said he believed there was room for the Police Department to make changes.
  While Mr. Deutsch is expected to cut into Ms. Clarke’s base, Isiah James, a combat veteran and democratic socialist, is running to the left of Mr. Bunkeddeko. Lutchi Gayot, who ran as a Republican against Ms. Clarke in the 2018 general election, is now running as a Democrat.
  Mr. James, 33, a  Black Lives Matter activist , said calls for reform from Mr. Bunkeddeko and Ms. Clarke do not go far enough.
  The district’s ills, which he described as including hospital closings, discriminatory policing and a lack of affordable housing, had persisted long before the pandemic and the recent protests brought them to the fore, Mr. James said.
  Ms. Clarke expressed anger over the argument that she had not been active enough in her district or in dealing with the demands created by the outbreak and the calls for racial justice.
  She said she was proud of legislation she had introduced that would recalibrate a formula used to determine who qualifies for affordable housing. She also introduced legislation that would require companies to check algorithms they use for targeting ads or facial recognition, for example, for evidence of bias.
  She also noted that she had contacted Mayor Bill de Blasio when a police officer from a precinct in her district  aggressively shoved a protester to the ground , and condemned the incident at a news conference. The officer was later charged with misdemeanor assault.
  On the first day of early voting, Ms. Clarke arrived at the Brooklyn Museum to cast a ballot wearing a red face covering to match her red pantsuit. She greeted supporters with an elbow bump and bid them farewell by saying “Wakanda forever.”
  “She’s not a lazy person,” Una Clarke said of her daughter. “She’s just not as loud as I am.”
 