SAN FRANCISCO — Gov. Gavin Newsom on Sunday called for what he called “profoundly significant steps” to limit the spread of coronavirus, including the isolation at home of all residents 65 years and older; the closure of nightclubs, wineries and bars; and the purchase by the state of hotels to shelter some of the state’s 150,000 homeless people.
  The orders in the nation’s most populous state came as governors across the country began to  impose further limits  on public gatherings in an attempt to slow the spread of a virus that has already claimed  nearly 60 lives  in the United States.
  “We need to meet this moment aggressively,” Mr. Newsom said. “The most important thing is to protect our most vulnerable.”
  Around five million seniors in California would be affected by the guidelines, which also apply to people with certain chronic health conditions.
  The governor also banned all visits to nursing homes, assisted-living facilities and hospitals except for cases in which a patient is on the edge of death.
  The purchase of hotels and motels by the state would help reduce crowding at homeless shelters. Researchers have said homeless people, many of whom have medical ailments, are  among the most vulnerable to coronavirus .
  The governor said the state was also negotiating to reopen a number of very large hospitals that are currently not operational to provide at least 750 extra beds in anticipation of an influx of new patients.
  In announcing his new directives at a news briefing in Sacramento, Mr. Newsom said he did not want to place limits on what he called “productive” members of society.
  “You need to distinguish,” he said, cautioning against across-the-board measures.
  “There’s a sense that everything is black and white, one size fits all,” he said. “You have to be guided by common sense.”
  The governor’s orders would close bars but allow restaurants to stay open as long as they practiced “deep social distancing.” Occupancy limits would be cut in half, he said, and tables would be required to be six feet apart.
  While seniors would be strongly encouraged to stay at home, younger people should have the option to circulate, he said.
  “If you’re young and healthy,” Mr. Newsom said, “you’ll work through this quite well.”
  But he cautioned against mixing between those younger people and those who are more vulnerable.
  All the measures announced Sunday were officially categorized as guidelines, but the governor said he had the authority to make them mandatory if they were not adequately implemented.
  “I have all the expectation in the world that the guidelines will be followed,” he said.
  The governor said 13 task forces were working on ways to provide water, food and fuel, if necessary, to seniors at home.
  As the virus has spread across California — the state had around 380 cases as of Sunday — Mr. Newsom has favored a decentralized approach to fighting it. Measures that might be appropriate in Silicon Valley, one of the hardest hit areas, may not be appropriate for rural or agricultural counties, he said.
  School districts across the state have made their own decisions as to whether to close and for how long.
  Mr. Newsom said school closures, which are being decided at the local level, now affect 80 to 85 percent of all schoolchildren in the state.
  But Mr. Newsom left open the possibility for stricter measures in the days to come.
  The governor also announced that a pilot project to screen people for coronavirus testing would begin Monday in two counties in Silicon Valley.
  The project is being carried out by Verily, a life sciences subsidiary of Google’s parent company, and was mentioned by President Trump last week, causing executives at the technology giant to  scramble to get it running .
  The project will set up an online survey that gives participants a score indicating whether they should be tested for the virus. The pilot project will take place in Santa Clara and  San Mateo  Counties, where the number of cases has surged in recent days.
 