The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is recommending Americans wear cloth masks to prevent the virus’s spread. New York, France and the U.K. reported their deadliest days, while total U.S. fatalities surpassed 7,000.
  The World Health Organization warned countries not to ease lockdowns too soon. Spain’s health minister said a projected slowdown of the contagion is within reach, and Italy saw the number of new cases and deaths stabilize.
  The governors of New York and New Jersey, the two hardest-hit U.S. states, ordered unused ventilators and other equipment to be commandeered from medical facilities and redistributed to hospitals treating virus patients.
  Key Developments:
  • Global cases top 1 million; deaths reach 58,000: Johns Hopkins
  • QuickTake: When and how does the pandemic end?
  • Jobs destroyed worldwide as virus sparks recession
  • U.K.’s Johnson is still ill and isolating
  • Merkel returns to work after quarantine
  • The EU state where hospitals are as scary as the coronavirus
  U.S. Deaths Top 7,000: Johns Hopkins (7:21 a.m. HK)
  U.S. deaths from the coronavirus have surpassed 7,000, according to Johns Hopkins University. The New York City area has the most fatalities, at more than 1,500, the university’s data show.
  The U.S. has the world’s largest outbreak of the virus, with more than 275,000 infections. Italy, the next most hard-hit country, has about 120,000.
  Trump Invokes Act to Prevent Exports of Medical Gear (6:52 a.m. HK)
  President Donald Trump said he invoked the Defense Production Act to prevent crucial medical supplies from being exported to other countries. The Department of Health and Human Services has seized nearly 200,000 N95 respirators, 130,000 surgical masks, 600,000 gloves, as well as “many, many, many bottles and disinfectant sprays that were being hoarded,” Trump said.
  The president has been in a public shouting match with 3M Co. over its export commitments. White House trade adviser Peter Navarro said Thursday that the administration has had concerns about whether the company’s production around the world is being delivered to the U.S.
  3M responded Friday that there would be “significant humanitarian implications of ceasing respirator supplies to health-care workers in Canada and Latin America.”
  Read the full story here
  Alabama, Missouri Issue Stay-at-Home Orders (6:25 a.m. HK)
  The governors of Alabama and Missouri, two holdout states on placing strict limitations on residents, said they will adopt stay-at-home orders.
  Alabama’s rules take effect at 5 p.m. Saturday. Governor Kay Ivey said in a tweet that she had done everything possible to avoid the step, but “late yesterday, it became obvious that more had to be done.”
  In Missouri, Governor Mike Parson said his order will begin Monday and last through April 24.
  Trump Says CDC Suggests Use of Cloth Masks (5:49 p.m. NY)
  The CDC recommended the use of non-surgical grade cloth masks as a voluntary measure to prevent the spread of the virus. The announcement marks a reversal for health officials, who’d previously said that those without symptoms didn’t need to wear face coverings.
  “It’s only a recommendation,” President Donald Trump told reporters at the White House on Friday, adding that he won’t wear one and that the suggestion doesn’t replace guidance on social distancing. “It’s voluntary.”
  Masks have already been recommended by local officials in areas including New York City, Los Angeles and the San Francisco Bay area.
  Read the full story here
  Google Joins With Researchers to Track Cases (4:48 p.m. NY)
  Google is working with researchers in Europe to track the virus’s spread using troves of location data gathered from smartphones, according to several people involved in the project. The data can’t be used to track an individual person; rather, it shows broad patterns of movement across entire countries over periods of time, the people said.
  The data is helping researchers analyze the relationship between travel patterns and transmission rates of the virus within different countries, according to the people, while also providing insight into the effectiveness of lockdowns in European countries.
  Read the full story here
  New York, New Jersey Seize Ventilators (3:55 p.m. NY)
  The governors of New York and New Jersey have ordered unused ventilators and other equipment to be commandeered from medical facilities and redistributed to hospitals treating coronavirus patients, aggressive measures highlighting increasingly dire conditions.
  The move came as New York officials began to warn that the health system was possibly just days away from hitting its capacity to handle the waves of patients. New Jersey, which has the second-highest rate of infections, is trying to get ahead of the curve and avoid the dire fate of its neighbor.
  Read more here
  French Fatalities Hit 6,507 In Deadliest Day (2:20 p.m. NY)
  France reported its deadliest day on Friday as the number of coronavirus fatalities at the country’s hospitals rose.
  The health ministry reported 588 new hospital deaths and 1,416 nursing home deaths, bringing the total to 6,507. Still, daily intensive-care admissions fell for a fourth day, adding to signs that lockdown measures across Europe may be helping to bring the outbreak under control.
  WHO Urges Countries to Keep Lockdowns (2 p.m. NY)
  Lifting restrictions too quickly could lead to a resurgence of the disease and the economic impact could be even more severe and prolonged, World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said at a press briefing in Geneva.
  “We don’t want to end up in a cycle of lockdown followed by release, followed by another lockdown followed by release,” said Mike Ryan, head of health emergencies at the WHO. Countries need to make a massive investment in testing and contact tracing because the only way to get rid of the disease truly is to hunt it down, he said.
  The WHO also conceded slightly on its guidelines for wearing masks, saying homemade mouth coverings may help slow transmission in some places. However, medical masks and N95s should be reserved for frontline health workers who are putting their lives in danger, Ryan said.
  Spanish Pandemic Slowing: Health Minister (1:23 p.m. NY)
  Spain’s target of seeing the coronavirus epidemic slow by April 5 is “within reach,” according to Health Minister Salvador Illa.
  “Given the data seen so far this week, and while we await for what may happen over the weekend, the target is within reach,” Illa said in a press conference in Madrid Friday.
  Italy Coronavirus Cases, Deaths Stabilize (12:33 p.m. NY)
  Italy saw the number of new coronavirus cases and deaths stabilizing on Friday, as officials express optimism that a four-week lockdown is beginning to check Europe’s worst outbreak.
  Fatalities over the past 24 hours rose 766, compared with Thursday’s 760 deaths, to 14,681, civil protection authorities said at their daily news conference in Rome. They reported 4,585 new infections compared with 4,668 the previous day. Italy now has 119,827 total cases, just ahead of Spain’s 117,710.
  The pace of both new deaths and new infections has flattened out over past days, even as the containment measures shuttering all non-essential activities and banning most movement take a heavy toll on the economy.
  N.Y. Reports Most Deaths in a Day (11:20 a.m. NY)
  New York state suffered its highest number of deaths in a single day from the coronavirus, with more than 500 fatalities as the total number approached 3,000 statewide, Governor Andrew Cuomo said Friday.
  Cuomo said the state also had more than 10,000 new cases in a single day,passing 100,000 in confirmed infections.
  “The curve continues to go up,” he said during a briefing in Albany.
  The Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in Manhattan, which has been converted into hospital, will now take only Covid-19 patients, he said. The original plan was for the convention center to free hospitals by taking non-virus patients.
  Russian Police Detain Activist Doctor (9:21 a.m. NY)
  Russian police detained a doctor who has been critical of the Kremlin’s ability to handle the country’s growing coronavirus crisis.
  Anastasia Vasilyeva, the leader of the Alliance of Doctors union, was held overnight after she delivered protective gear to a regional hospital about 250 miles northwest of Moscow on Thursday.
  Video posted by her group on Twitter showed a group of police officers surrounding her and dragging her into a police station. Regional police didn’t answer calls to the press office.
  While the Kremlin insists it is ready for the epidemic and even sent a plane with humanitarian aid to the U.S. this week, doctors around the country have complained of a shortage of equipment to handle the crisis.
  U.K. Reports Deadliest Day Yet With 684 Coronavirus Deaths (9:11 a.m. NY)
  The U.K. reported its deadliest day yet, with an increase of 684 coronavirus fatalities, bringing the total to 3,605. , Some 38,168 people have tested positive for the virus, according to the Department of Health and Social Care
  Singapore Confirms 65 New Covid Cases, Cluster at Cricket Club (9:07 a.m. NY)
  The Ministry of Health has confirmed 65 new cases of Covid-19 infection in Singapore as of 12pm on April 3, of which nine are imported and 56 are local with no recent travel history abroad. New clusters include one at the Singapore Cricket Club.
  Europe Suspends Import Duties on Medical Gear to Fight Pandemic (9:00 a.m. NY)
  The European Union let its member countries suspend import duties on medical equipment needed to fight the pandemic. The European Commission approved requests by all EU governments to waive the bloc’s tariffs on goods such as masks, testing kits and ventilators.
  Low Testing Rates Leave Quarter of World ‘Blindfolded’ on Virus (8:14 a.m. NY)
  Low testing rates in India, Indonesia and Pakistan risk leaving them unsure about the extent of coronavirus transmission in their countries. All three nations -- which together hold about 25% of the global population -- crossed 1,500 cases this week. They have tested the lowest number of residents per million, according to official data for six nations in Asia compiled by Bloomberg.
  Europe Holds Off on Looser Bank Accounting Rules for Now (7:58 a.m. NY)
  European Union officials studying further accounting measures to help the banking sector deal with the coronavirus pandemic are keeping their powder dry for now. In a draft statement seen by Bloomberg, diplomats said they stand “ready to take further actions” to mitigate the impact of the virus, including “possible additional non-legislative or legislative measures.” For now, though, legal changes like softening the impact of new accounting rules don’t appear necessary, according to an official involved in the talks who asked not to be identified because the deliberations are private.
  U.K.’s Johnson Is Still Ill and Isolating With Coronavirus Fever (7:56 a.m. NY)
  British Prime Minister Boris Johnson still has a high temperature and remains in isolation, one week after testing positive for coronavirus. Johnson made the announcement in a video posted on Twitter on Friday, saying that even after 7 days, “alas I still have one of the symptoms, a minor symptom: I still have a temperature. In accordance with government advice I must continue my self-isolation.”
  For more articles like this, please visit us at  bloomberg.com 
  ©2020 Bloomberg L.P.
 