Washington  — The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is about to change its guidelines for self-isolation to make it easier for those who have been exposed to someone with  the new coronavirus  to return to work if they are asymptomatic, Vice President Pence said Tuesday.
  The public health agency, in conjunction with the White House coronavirus task force, will announce the changes Wednesday, Pence said at Tuesday's task force press briefing.
  Under the new guidance, people who are exposed to someone infected would be allowed back on the job if they are asymptomatic, test their temperature twice a day and wear a face mask, a person familiar with the proposal under consideration told The Associated Press. The person described the proposal on the condition of anonymity because the draft had not been finalized. 
  The new policy is aimed in particular at workers in critical jobs. But it also comes as the Trump administration is eyeing what it calls a "stabilization" in infection rates and looks toward rolling back some of the restrictive social-distancing guidelines and restarting the nation's stalled economy.
  The expected guidance would follow recommendations made by the CDC that eased self-isolation requirements for front-line medical workers who were exposed to the virus. Under CDC guidance, medical workers who have been exposed to the virus without protective equipment but who have no symptoms can return to work with a mask and temperature checks after 14 days.
  Pence said the White House is focusing on the "point of need" for the current situation but is also operating on another track to consider future recommendations for the public.
  "Some of the best minds here at the White House are beginning to think about what recommendations will look like that we give to businesses, that we give to states, but it will all, I promise you, be informed on putting the health and well-being of the American people first," Pence said.
  For most people, the new coronavirus causes mild or moderate symptoms, such as fever and cough that clear up in two to three weeks. For some, especially older adults and people with existing health problems, it can cause more severe illness, including pneumonia, and death.
 