Marilyn Schneider is an executive secretary at Ohio's Cleveland Clinic where she gets her temperature checked several times a day.
  When the 57-year-old got home from work March 27, an intense chill suddenly overcame her, accompanied by a rising fever. 
  “It felt like something came up behind me and dropped a bucket of ice water on me,” she said.
  The next day, she got tested, and less than 12 hours later learned   she was positive for COVID-19. Her fever climbed from 98 to 104.5 degrees in a single day, then the hallucinations began.
  At first, Schneider heard voices through the walls that sounded like neighbors talking or her son in the next room – even though she lives alone and her son lives in Michigan. She called for her dog Scruffles, who died seven years ago.
  It culminated one night when Schneider was in bed and heard voices again. She turned over and was face-to-face with herself, a double, lying next to her on the bed. The vision's eyes were wide with fear, its arms extended. “Marilyn, why aren’t you helping me?” it said repeatedly.
  Schneider reached through the hallucination to grab her cellphone on the nightstand and called 911. The next thing she remembers is running out to the street at 4 a.m. to flag down the ambulance. Doctors told her at the hospital that if she hadn't made that call, she would have been dead by morning.
  “The COVID hallucinations saved my life,” she said.
  Pravin George, a neurointensivist at the Cleveland Clinic, said hallucinations and delirium are becoming more common among COVID-19 patients. It’s rare for someone to distinguish a hallucination from reality, then remember it afterward – like Schneider.
  “The fact that she was able to do a lot of those things is pretty remarkable,” he said. “Most of the patients aren’t able to remember a lot of these things happening.”  
  Though experts can’t confirm why COVID-19 patients experience hallucinations, George offered a few explanations.
  'Wear masks': What doctors say about coronavirus risks at Trump's New Hampshire rally 
  Check these rankings: Hospitals have long been judged on quality of care. These new rankings grade their commitment to community, too 
  The coronavirus can trigger intense inflammation caused by an overreaction of the body’s immune system. George said hallucinations could stem from such inflammation blocking blood to the brain or from the virus attacking the brain itself. Low oxygen levels from impacts to the lungs also can cause delirium.  
  COVID-19 patients who are heavily sedated in intensive care units can experience a different kind of delirium, called hypoactive delirium, George said.
  The Cleveland Clinic said symptoms of hypoactive delirium include withdrawal, apathy, laziness and decreased responsiveness. Hyperactive delirium is characterized by anxiety, restlessness, rapid changes in emotion and hallucinations.
  SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, isn’t the first to lead to hallucinations and delirium. According to the Mayo Clinic, chickenpox, measles and tick-borne or mosquito-borne viruses can cause brain inflammation, medically known as encephalitis.
  When Schneider arrived at the trauma center, the doctor said her lungs were the consistency of chocolate pudding.
  “I said, ‘Please cover up the windows, I don’t want my co-workers to see me die,’ ” she recalled.
  Schneider called her family to tell them her wishes and to say goodbye. She'd survived cancer and a double mastectomy and graduated college the year before, but she didn't have any fight left in her to conquer COVID-19.
  Then another hallucination appeared. As she lay in the hospital bed intubated and heavily sedated, her late husband, aunt, sister and grandmother appeared in the room with a message.
  "These people were telling me I had to go back and had to fight," she said. 
  Schneider's condition improved after that last hallucination. She was taken off the ventilator after several days and released from the hospital the following week.
  She's mentally, emotionally and physically recovering from her illness. The vivid hallucinations she said saved her life prompted her to seek counseling, something she recommends for other COVID-19 patients. 
  "Hallucination, drug-induced, spiritual or whatever it is … I don’t want to experience it again before it's my time," she said. "It was a very scary time. I’m not minimizing cancer in any sense of the word ... (but) I would rather go through cancer again than go through COVID again."
  Health and patient safety coverage at USA TODAY is made possible in part by a grant from the Masimo Foundation for Ethics, Innovation and Competition in Healthcare. The Masimo Foundation does not provide editorial input. 
  Follow Adrianna Rodriguez on Twitter: @AdriannaUSAT.  
 