Montgomery:  The state is postponing its Republican primary runoff between former U.S. Sen. Jeff Sessions and a rival because of the coronavirus, the governor announced Wednesday. The runoff between Sessions and former Auburn University football coach Tommy Tuberville will now be held July  14, Gov. Kay Ivey said. The winner of the GOP runoff will face Democratic Sen. Doug Jones in November. The delay also affects primary runoffs for state and local races. “We would be taking a human health risk just by having people stand in line waiting to vote,” Ivey said. “I’m also aware that our faithful poll workers are often retired, and many among those have the highest risk.” Alabama has 46 confirmed case of coronavirus, according to the Alabama Department of Public Health, which has cautioned that the number of people carrying the virus is probably higher. 
  Anchorage:  Norwegian musher Thomas Waerner easily won the Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race, one of the few U.S. sporting events not canceled by concerns about the new coronavirus. Waerner crossed the finish line in Nome, Alaska, early Wednesday morning. “This is awesome,” he told reporters at the finish line. “This is something special.” It took him 9 days, 10 hours, 37 minutes and 47 seconds to travel nearly 1,000 miles across Alaska. Waerner immediately thanked the 10 dogs in harness, petting and rubbing each, ending his with lead dogs, K2 and Bark. Then each dog got a snack. Fans didn’t employ social distancing as they poured out of bars and hotels to cheer Waerner as he drove the team off the Bering Sea ice and down Front Street to the finish line under the famed burled arch. He will earn a minimum of $50,000 and a new pickup truck for winning the race.
  Phoenix:  Inmates in the state’s prisons are being offered free soap and are no longer routinely being moved between prison complexes in the latest efforts to guard against the risks of the coronavirus. The Arizona Department of Corrections, Rehabilitation and Reentry also announced a requirement Wednesday that all employees entering prisons undergo a check for infectious disease symptoms. The agency had previously suspended visitation at state prisons and a $4 copayment on inmates who seek medical help for cold and flu symptoms. Meanwhile, Phoenix and Tucson joined Flagstaff on Tuesday in ordering bars, gyms and other indoor facilities to close immediately and restaurants to offer to-go service only in an effort to slow the spread of the coronavirus. The closures came as state health officials identified three more coronavirus cases, including the first two on the Arizona portion of the Navajo reservation in Navajo County. The Navajo Nation, a sovereign tribal government, already had declared an emergency on the reservation, closed tribal parks and limited travel for tribal employees.
  Little Rock:  The governor announced new financial assistance for people and businesses affected by the coronavirus outbreak, including a temporary waiver of the state’s work requirement for food stamps. Gov. Asa Hutchinson ordered the changes Wednesday as Arkansas saw its coronavirus cases rise from 22 to 33, its largest single-day increase. Hutchinson says the new assistance will include loans for some mid-sized businesses and incentives for child care providers to remain open. Hutchinson on Tuesday had announced he was also easing restrictions on seeking unemployment.
  Sacramento:  Gov. Gavin Newsom’s assessment that it’s likely “few if any” California schools will reopen before summer break surprised parents, who wondered Wednesday how distance learning would work. Some parents are making their children get up at the same hour as if they are in school and have a scheduled day of online learning. Others are taking advantage of the online resources provided by school districts, like “Skype with a scientist” offered by the San Diego Unified School District and virtual tours through museums worldwide. While urging Californians to stay united and promising that “we will get back to the life that we have lived,” Newsom also acknowledged that much is unknown, and so the state is preparing for frightening worst-case scenarios. The California National Guard is on alert for potential duties that include humanitarian missions like ensuring proper food distribution and public safety as some grocery stores resorted to rationing to control panic-buying. Newsom said the state is acquiring two vacant hospitals to beef up capacity as it faces the possibility of a surge of hospital patients. California also is negotiating with about 900 hotels to acquire tens of thousands of rooms that could be used for hospital patients and for the homeless, a group particularly susceptible to coronavirus.
  Denver:  A relief fund and child care program have been created for state residents facing challenges from the coronavirus, Gov. Jared Polis announced Wednesday. Polis also said it’s unlikely that many public school districts will stay open or that ones that have been closed would reopen this school year. To date, the state is allowing individual districts to decide whether to stay open, but distance learning is being encouraged. Denver and some other districts have suspended classes. The state human services department and Office of Early Childhood are coordinating efforts to create an emergency child care system to help an estimated 80,000 first responders, health care workers and others whose jobs are essential during the pandemic and who have young children. Dubbed the Colorado Emergency Childcare Collaborative, the public-private effort is seeking applicants who can help. An effort called Help Colorado Now is designed to assist people who lost work because of business closures and economic disruptions or face other virus-caused hardships.
  Hartford:  State officials are trying to speed up the certification of new nurses and urging retired nurses to come back to work to help handle the state’s anticipated spike in patients afflicted with the coronavirus. “We need you. And we’re gonna (look) to you over the next two, three, five, six weeks,” Gov. Ned Lamont said Tuesday. “So please reach out to your former hospital where you were. We need you to be able to step back.” While the state now has close to 70 diagnosed cases, State Epidemiologist Matthew Cartter warned many more are expected in the coming weeks. “Really, this is just starting to move across (the state). This is the beginning of this,” he said, noting that doctors and nurses at hospitals in the western part of the state are already working around the clock in facilities full of patients with many other ailments. Cartter said 26 patients are currently hospitalized in Connecticut with the virus that causes COVID-19.
  Dover:  The number of new coronavirus cases in the state has doubled following a hospital system’s drive-thru testing event. The Division of Public Health announced eight new positive cases Tuesday, bringing the statewide total to 16. Seven of the new cases involved New Castle County residents, with the other being the first reported case in Sussex County. One of the New Castle County residents is hospitalized. The others are self-isolating at home. Officials said six of the seven New Castle County residents participated in the ChristianaCare Health System’s drive-thru testing event Friday, when 536 people were tested. Officials are awaiting more results from that event. Authorities said the Sussex County resident had travel-related exposure, but the exposure sources of the other individuals is still under investigation as the state and others confronts the global outbreak of the new coronavirus strain. Meanwhile, the Delaware Department of Labor said Tuesday that it is expanding unemployment benefits to workers affected by the virus who would otherwise not typically qualify for benefits.
  Washington:  Volunteers are banding together to help people in some of D.C.’s most underserved communities during the coronavirus pandemic,  WUSA-TV reports . Samantha Davis, who founded the Black Swan Academy, said she asked herself, “How are people going to eat? How can people get health care? How are people going to get to work?” Davis desperately worked to find answers to her questions the moment the coronavirus hit the district, she said, and while local governments across the D.C. area are all doing something to address people’s concerns, “it’s never enough. ... That’s the role that I play along with other organizers and community folk throughout the city.” A coalition of organizations and community members also launched a hotline as a part of the D.C. Mutual Aid Network to help create a rapid response to some of their neighbors’ most pressing needs. The group has stations set up throughout neighborhoods and schools east of the Anacostia River where people in need can get food, toiletries and hand sanitizer. Volunteers will also deliver items if people are not able to leave their homes or pick up those lacking transportation.
  Tallahassee:  Health officials are deploying three field hospitals statewide as Florida’s number of infected with coronavirus jumped by nearly half with possibly two deaths tied to the disease at a Fort Lauderdale nursing home. Emergency Management Director Jared Moskowitz announced in an email Tuesday night that one field hospital is currently staged in Orlando and can be sent to other areas if needed as the pandemic spreads. Another is on its way to Broward County, which has 80 infected people, more than a quarter of the state’s confirmed cases. Mobile COVID-19 testing also is being implemented in Broward, and the National Guard has been deployed to assist there. The third field hospital will be set up in Ocala, north of Orlando, and moved elsewhere as needed. Moskowitz said he’s also working with federal officials to determine whether the state can add U.S. Navy Mercy-class hospital ships at Florida ports. Officials said more than 310 people test positive for COVID-19, including 21 out-of-state residents who tested positive in Florida and six Florida residents who tested positive elsewhere, according to the state’s dashboard. Six deaths have been reported in Florida.
  Atlanta:  Coronavirus infections were blamed for two new deaths in southwest Georgia on Wednesday, bringing the state’s total death toll to three. Officials at Phoebe Putney Memorial Hospital in Albany said in a news relase that two patients had died from the virus. The hospital is in Dougherty County, one of the hardest-hit Georgia counties outside metro Atlanta. “The entire Phoebe Family is saddened to learn of the first COVID-19 deaths in our area,” said Dr. Steven Kitchens, the Albany hospital’s chief medical officer. “Unfortunately, more deaths are likely to occur, and we will certainly see more positive cases as we receive more test results.” Georgia has 197 cases of COVID-19, the disease caused by the virus, the Georgia Department of Public Health reported Wednesday. Its latest numbers did not include the two new deaths.
  Honolulu:  Gov. David Ige on Tuesday encouraged visitors to postpone their island vacations for at least the next 30 days as the state tries to slow the spread of the coronavirus. Ige announced the plea along with a directive that all bars and clubs close and that restaurants shift to serving food through drive-thru, takeout and delivery service. He called on gatherings to be limited to a maximum of 10 people. “The actions I’m announcing today may seem extreme to some of you, and we know that it will have negative effects to our economy,” Ige said. “But we are confident that taking aggressive actions now will allow us to have a quicker recovery when this crisis is over.” Hawaii welcomed 10  million visitors last year, an all-time record. Tourism is the engine of the state’s economy, accounting for nearly one-fifth of local jobs. To date, Hawaii has recorded 14 positive cases of the new coronavirus. Officials have closed schools and facilities and postponed events to prevent the disease from spreading widely in the community and overwhelming the health care system. 
  Boise:  Gov. Brad Little on Wednesday announced stricter guidelines for social interactions to slow the spread of the new coronavirus. The Republican governor said the state was adopting federal guidelines that include avoiding social gatherings of more than 10 people. The guidelines also call for not eating or drinking in bars, restaurants and food courts but allow for drive-thru or pickup options. Little also recommended avoiding discretionary travel and shopping. The goal, he said, is to slow the spread so that health care facilities aren’t overwhelmed and to protect the elderly and people with health conditions, who are more susceptible. Health officials say nine people in Idaho have now tested positive, and two are hospitalized. State epidemiologist Christine Hahn said they didn’t know if any of the nine cases involved community spread, a serious escalation in that it would mean someone hadn’t traveled out of their community and didn’t know how they came in contact with the virus.
  Chicago:  Operations at Midway International Airport remained limited Wednesday, a day after federal authorities closed the control tower after technicians tested positive for the coronavirus. The city’s second-largest airport was open, but the Federal Aviation Administration said the air traffic control tower was still closed for cleaning. According to the city’s Department of Aviation, 337 flights had been canceled over the prior 24 hours at Midway out of 527 total planned flights. By early afternoon Wednesday, 26 flights were listed as delayed. “We’re working with the FAA to resume normal operations as quickly and safely as possible which ultimately means having the tower back in service,” the Department of Aviation said in a statement. “Given this reality, and for their own business and network reasons, the airlines are making the decision to cancel many flights.” Travelers are being encouraged to check with their airline about flight schedules.
  Indianapolis:  Local restaurants are suffering the worst crisis they’ve ever faced, yet the industry  is stepping up to help others by establishing neighborhood food markets, offering free meals to those in need and funneling resources to suddenly out-of-work food-service employees . A few hours after Gov. Eric J. Holcomb ordered all restaurants to cease dine-in service through the end of March to help slow down the spread of coronavirus, restaurant owners and workers gathered Monday at Liter House restaurant and brainstormed not just how to save their businesses but also how to help the communities they serve. Establishments started rolling out efforts by Tuesday afternoon. Joella’s announced it would give kids 10 and younger free meals 11  a.m. to 5  p.m. weekdays. The restaurant also offers complimentary catering to hospitals and health care facilities near its locations. At Liter House, owners transformed the banquet room and rear barbecue hall into a mini food depot where staff packs groceries for curbside pickup. “It’s like the reusing of the factories in World War II, like they repurposed those,” said Ed Sahm, founder and CEO at Sahm’s restaurant group, which owns Liter House. “We have an army of people, and we have a bunch of equipment. Let’s feed people.” 
  Des Moines:  A man  has removed the books from the little free library he erected at his home and replaced them with newly treasured items : toilet paper, wet wipes and medical gloves. After Bob Meeley stocked those mundane products – much-sought-after as the coronavirus spreads and people heed officials’ advice to stay home – he posted the location last week on the neighborhood app Nextdoor. Several items had been taken and replaced within two days, he said. “I don’t care who you are, where you’re from, or what you’re taking and why – it’s none of my business as long as it helps,” Meeley said. His goal is for others with little free libraries to fill them with supplies that other people can’t get due to shortages. Meeley knows what it feels like to need help: He and his family were temporarily displaced in 2008 when their home was flooded by the Raccoon River. “I know the feeling intimately, the sort of helplessness you can feel, and here’s something I can control at least from the baseline that we have, and we’ll see if it takes root,” he said.
  Topeka:  Gov. Laura Kelly has ordered financial institutions to temporarily suspend business and residential evictions to help those financially affected by the spread of the coronavirus. The executive order signed by Kelly on Tuesday says the action will allow Kansans to “retain their homes and businesses to avoid immediate danger to their health, safety and welfare.” Financial institutions were ordered to suspend initiating mortgage foreclosure or judicial proceedings and commercial or residential evictions until May  1. The order was not announced by Kelly or her office, and the governor did not mention it during a news conference Tuesday, during which she required all the state’s K-12 schools to close and move lessons online for the rest of the spring semester. On Monday, she banned all gatherings of 50 or more people. The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Kansas doubled on Tuesday to at least 18, with one death. 
  Frankfort:  Gov. Andy Beshear has ordered the closure of theaters, gyms, hair salons and many other businesses where people gather, taking new action in a bid to contain the new coronavirus. Beshear’s order exempts a cross-section of businesses that will be allowed to stay open. The exempted list includes grocery stores, banks, pharmacies, health care facilities, gas stations, hardware stores and hotels. The governor acknowledged the latest closures will disrupt daily lives but said it’s necessary to deter the virus and protect the most vulnerable people. “These are all places that people congregate, and it’s another step that we have to take to make sure that everybody’s sacrifice works,” Beshear said. Kentucky’s K-12 schools shut down for at least two weeks at the governor’s request. He signaled Tuesday that schools may remain closed longer than that. “We ought to be prepared to go longer than that,” he said. “I would ask everybody to begin to make the preparations.” Twenty-six virus cases have been reported in Kentucky, the governor said in his daily update Tuesday.
  Baton Rouge:  Three more area residents have died from the coronavirus, Gov. John Bel Edwards said Wednesday, bringing the state’s death toll to seven as the number of positive cases in Louisiana rose above 250. The epicenter of the virus in Louisiana remains the New Orleans region, with most of the positive tests and all of the state’s deaths. Four of the people who died from the virus were residents of a retirement home, Lambeth House, which has seen a cluster of cases. Two of the victims announced Wednesday, aged 98 and 92, were residents there, Edwards said. The third was from the New Orleans suburb of Jefferson Parish, the governor said. But increased testing showed the COVID-19 disease also had reached the capital, Baton Rouge, according to the Louisiana Department of Health. Positive tests for the virus statewide jumped to 257, up from 196 a day earlier. Edwards warned the numbers likely will “jump tremendously” within 36 hours as testing ramps up statewide. “I want people to be prepared for this,” the governor said. “It is going to get much worse before it gets better.” Republican U.S. Sen. Bill Cassidy, a doctor, said Louisiana has the third-highest rate of COVID-19 cases per capita in the nation.
  Bangor:  The state’s provider of family planning services is taking steps to make sure patients don’t see an interruption in birth control prescriptions while much of the state enters shutdown mode. Maine Family Planning has 18 clinics in the state and serves thousands of residents. The nonprofit said Tuesday that it’s extending birth control services for three months. The move will make sure people maintain access, limit unnecessary office visits and potentially help avert a “baby boom,” representatives for the group said. “We wanted to accommodate our patients. For women and families, there’s already enough anxiety, so the idea that you can’t get access to birth control is just too much,” Maine Family Planning vice president of program services Evelyn Kieltyka said. There’s precedent for an unexpected stretch of isolation at home leading to a spike in births, the Bangor Daily News reports. Such a bump happened in Maine and New Hampshire after the 1998 ice storm that shut down parts of the Northeast.
  Annapolis:  The House of Delegates passed the state’s $48  billion budget Tuesday with added money to deal with the new coronavirus. The House voted 126-8 for the state’s spending plan for the next fiscal year, which begins July  1. Approving a balanced budget for the next fiscal year is a requirement of the General Assembly’s annual session. It had been scheduled to end April  6, but legislative leaders instead set Wednesday for adjournment. Del. Maggie McIntosh, a Baltimore Democrat who chairs the House budget committee, said the budget has a $231  million fund balance, about $105  million higher than the spending plan had when Gov. Larry Hogan submitted it in January. “We’ve also again, I want to reiterate, left nearly $1.4  billion to protect against economic uncertainty,” McIntosh said. Del. Kathy Szeliga, a Republican who is the House minority whip, described the budget as “fiscally prudent and socially responsible.” 
  Boston:  The area’s transit system is again revising schedules to ensure that workers at hospitals, government offices and food distribution facilities can easily get to work during the coronavirus pandemic. Starting Wednesday, the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority added additional Blue Line service in the morning and additional Green Line E Branch capacity in response to crowding Tuesday, the first day of the agency’s revised schedule. The MBTA also added service on some key bus routes Wednesday. The Green Line serves the Longwood medical area in Boston. “We recognize that some employees in key industries, including those in the medical community, rely on the MBTA to get to their places of work, and we’re committed to providing service to those folks who rely on the T,” General Manager Steve Poftak said.
  Detroit:  A Fiat Chrysler factory that makes pickup trucks and employs thousands of people was shut down for cleaning Wednesday in suburban Detroit after a worker tested positive for the coronavirus. The U.S. and Canada, meanwhile, agreed to temporarily close their shared border to nonessential travel, although truck drivers carrying goods between countries are exempt. Buses were back on the road in Detroit, a day after drivers stayed home because of virus fears. Rides are free, and passengers enter and exit through the side-rear door, steps that greatly limit contact with drivers. An average of 85,000 people ride the buses each day. “I feel comfortable now,” said driver Wayne Clayton, who wears a mask. “It’s certainly an important job. We’ve got to get people to work.” In Sterling Heights, Fiat Chrysler sent evening shift workers home Tuesday. Work resumed early Wednesday before the company closed the factory again for deep cleaning “out of an abundance of caution.” The plant employs 7,271 hourly workers. Michigan has at least 65 COVID-19 cases.
  St. Paul:  A long-term care hospital will be converted into a treatment center for coronavirus patients in order to keep infected patients out of other hospitals. M Health Fairview cut operations in half at Bethesda hospital this winter for financial reasons but said Tuesday that it will now expand the facility from 50 beds to 90 in order to provide specialty care for COVID-19 patients. The Minnesota Department of Health said Tuesday that 60 residents had tested positive for the virus, but infectious disease director Kris Ehresmann acknowledged the figure is an undercount because not everyone who is infected gets tested. Patients now at Bethesda will be transferred this week to other hospitals or skilled-nursing homes, the Star Tribune reports. Bethesda will have 35 intensive-care beds and ventilators, officials said.
  Jackson:  The state’s jails are not prepared to handle a coronavirus outbreak, and judges should consider releasing people who are waiting for trial on nonviolent crimes but cannot afford to post bail, a human rights attorney said. Cliff Johnson is director of the MacArthur Justice Center at the University of Mississippi law school. The center tracks jail and prison conditions, and it released new figures Wednesday showing a continued pattern of thousands of people remaining in Mississippi jails for months because they cannot afford to post bail. The state reported 34 confirmed cases of the coronavirus as of Wednesday, though there was no indication any were in jails. Nonetheless, Johnson said jails could become more dangerous as the new virus spreads. “Mississippi sheriffs will be the first to tell you that they don’t have the expertise or the resources to deal with a pandemic like COVID-19,” Johnson said Wednesday. In some jails, inmates sleep in “open bay” settings, with multiple beds in a single large room.
  Kansas City:  A man in his 40s who recently traveled abroad is the 16th person in the state to test positive for the coronavirus, health officials said. The man is doing well and is in isolation at his home, while his family is in quarantine, Jackson County health officials announced late Tuesday. It was the second case in the county that includes Kansas City. Missouri health officials have reported cases of COVID-19 in Boone, Cass, Cole, Greene, Henry, Jackson and St. Louis counties, as well as one case in the city of St. Louis. In a statement to The Kansas City Star, Cerner spokeswoman Misti Preston said the company asked anyone who had contact with the individual to self-quarantine and closed its sprawling campus in south Kansas City for deep cleaning. Cerner, a health care technology company, has 14,000 employees on campuses in the Kansas City region.
  Helena:  Two men from Gallatin County have tested positive for coronavirus, the governor’s office said Wednesday,  bringing the total number of cases of the respiratory illness in the state to 11 . They will be isolated or quarantined adhering to public health guidelines, officials said. Others who came into close contact with the people will be monitored for 14 days for fever and respiratory symptoms per CDC guidance. The newest cases were announced Wednesday morning by Gov. Steve Bullock after the tests were performed by the Department of Public Health and Human Services Public Health Laboratory. One of the confirmed cases is a Montana woman who tested positive in Maryland. She had reportedly left the state in November. The DPHHS says 30 people have been monitored, and of those, four remain under monitoring.
  Omaha:  After more cases of COVID-19 were reported in the state, including a doctor, Omaha-area health officials took steps Wednesday to further limit gatherings to try stop the virus’s spread. The Douglas County Board of Health issued an order limiting gatherings within the county, which includes Omaha, to no more than 10 people. The order also says a venue must be large enough for all people in any gathering to be at least 6 feet apart from each other. The order is effective through April  30. It excludes a multitude of businesses, services and situations, such as courts, government operations, airports and public transportation, shopping venues, shelters and households with more than 10 people. Child care facilities, however, are limited to the 10-person order, which calls on law enforcement to ensure compliance. 
  Las Vegas:  The governor ordered a monthlong closure of casinos and other nonessential businesses like bars, movie theaters and gyms and told restaurants to shutter their dining rooms and only offer takeout or delivery in order to stem the spread of the new coronavirus. “Today it’s clear additional steps must be taken immediately in order to slow the spread of this deadly virus in our state,” Gov. Steve Sisolak said at a news conference. “We absolutely must take this step for every Nevadan’s health and safety. Please, please take this seriously. … Please stay home for Nevada.” The order from Democrat Steve Sisolak on Tuesday night follows similar moves by more than 10 other governors as states scramble to mitigate the risk of exposure to COVID-19. Sisolak’s order gave thousands of businesses in the tourism capital less than a day to prepare. Though a number of casinos started to close their doors this week, the governor’s sweeping order shutters Nevada’s main industry, anchored by glitzy casinos lining the Las Vegas Strip.
  Lebanon:  A Vermont man accused of prompting an evacuation Tuesday on a public bus after making claims of having the coronavirus was arrested. David Ladeau, 65, was charged with creating a false public alarm and disorderly conduct in New Hampshire, WPTZ reports. Lebanon police said the Hartford resident was telling bus riders he “was infected with coronavirus” Tuesday. His statements caused a number of people to call the police, according to his arrest warrant. Riders were evacuated shortly after, but the bus company said Ladeau refused to get off. It is unclear if Ladeau has actually tested positive for the virus. “He created a situation where, you know, people were extremely upset and fearful, causing a bus service to stop and be delayed for people to evacuate,” police chief Richard Mello said.
  Trenton:  The coronavirus outbreak has claimed two more lives in the state, bringing the total number of deaths to five, Gov. Phil Murphy said Wednesday. His announcement came on the first day students across the state were staying home as statewide school closures went into effect. Murphy repeated his ban on gatherings or events featuring more than 50 people and stressed that includes private gatherings. Murphy ordered the school closures Monday, though many schools already were ordering students to stay home. Health Commissioner Judith Persichilli said the state had identified 260 additional hospital beds that would be available Wednesday, the majority in the northern half of the state, where most of the positive cases are centered. Murphy said drive-thru testing would begin in Bergen County, the state’s hardest-hit area, by Friday, and testing in Holmdel, Monmouth County, is expected to begin next week.
  Albuquerque:  The state has qualified for a federal disaster loan assistance program aimed at helping small businesses affected by the COVID-19 public health emergency, state officials said Tuesday. Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham said the Small Business Administration’s loan program is one of several tools that can help businesses, many of which have seen rapid declines in customer traffic and sales over the past week as officials have encouraged people to stay home in order to limit the spread of the virus. “We are dedicated to assisting every business that we can to endure the significant hardship this emergency has already caused,” the governor said. State labor officials also announced that employees at businesses that close temporarily can access unemployment benefits without having to search for a new position.
  New York:  A 1,000-bed Navy hospital ship will be sent to New York to relieve pressure on hospitals bracing for an expected surge in coronavirus patients, officials announced Wednesday. The USNS Comfort, which was sent to New York after the Sept.  11, 2001, terrorist attacks, would bolster the health care system by treating non-coronavirus patients while hospitals treat people with COVID-19. The Comfort’s planned deployment comes as New York City-area hospitals are clearing out beds, setting up new spaces to triage patients, and urging people with mild symptoms to consult health professionals by phone or video chat instead of overrunning emergency rooms. The Navy said in a statement that it was “working to complete scheduled maintenance cycles and identify necessary medical staffing to deploy as soon as possible.” It’s not clear when it would arrive. Virus cases in the state topped 2,300 Wednesday, with at least 20 deaths. 
  Raleigh:  Democratic Gov. Roy Cooper’s power to demand a dine-in prohibition at the state’s restaurants and bars is being challenged by Republican Lt. Gov. Dan Forest. Cooper had announced a new executive order Tuesday with the new customer restrictions, which he said were a painful but necessary action to blunt the intensity of the new coronavirus. Forest, who is running against Cooper in November, said the governor didn’t have the authority to issue the prohibition because he didn’t receive support for it from a majority on the Council of State, comprised of 10 statewide elected officials. A provision in state law gives many additional powers to the governor under a declared emergency with “the concurrence of the Council of State.” A majority of the council voted not to concur, according to Forest, who said the mandate “will devastate our economy, shutter many small businesses and leave many people unemployed.”
  Bismarck:  The state Department of Health said another case of the new coronavirus is the first evidence of community transmission in North Dakota. The latest case announced Wednesday is a Morton County woman in her 30s who has had no travel history and has had no contact with anyone confirmed to have the disease. It brings the total number of COVID-19 cases in the state to six. Community spread means people are testing positive even though they hadn’t traveled to areas with a high concentration of the virus or knowingly been in contact with someone who has it. “This is the first confirmed case of community transmission in North Dakota, and it reinforces the importance for all North Dakotans to practice social distancing and stay home when you’re sick, even if it’s minor,” Gov. Doug Burgum said in a statement. The health department said as of Wednesday morning 274 people had been tested for the virus, with 268 coming back negative and six positive.
  Columbus:  The state Supreme Court set a speedy schedule to hear an elections lawsuit filed by the Ohio Democratic Party, while the state said it has received nearly 78,000 unemployment applications in just three days. As of Wednesday the state has more than 65 confirmed cases of the virus, with no reported deaths. Those include a 2-year-old boy in central Ohio and two Ohio State University employees. Meanwhile, the Ohio Supreme Court wants all arguments and counterarguments filed by March  27 in a lawsuit filed by the state’s Democratic Party challenging the decision by Secretary of State Frank LaRose to move the primary to June  2. No time extensions will be granted. The Bernie Sanders campaign has not taken a position on Ohio Democrats’ push for all-mail voting, said state Rep. Mike Skindell, a state co-chair. 
  Oklahoma City:  The number of coronavirus cases in the state has risen from 17 to 29, the Oklahoma State Department of Health reported Wednesday. State Health Commissioner Gary Cox said Tuesday that more positive cases are expected. Oral Roberts University in Tulsa said an employee of a company with which the university contracts for grounds maintenance tested positive for COVID-19. ORU said the man did not interact with students, his co-workers were sent home, and the shop where he worked and machinery with which he worked has been cleaned. Meanwhile, bars, restaurants and other business in the state’s largest cities, including Oklahoma City, Tulsa, Norman and Stillwater, are being ordered closed by local officials in an effort to slow the spread of the coronavirus.
  Salem:  Tens of thousands of workers have been laid off, losing income as rent or mortgage payments are due. Small businesses that shut down because of the coronavirus outbreak are at risk of never reopening their doors again. A new committee of the Legislature, which held its inaugural meeting Wednesday, is tasked with finding solutions to these cascading problems affecting so many across the state. Larry Brennan, owner of Arch Rock Brewing Company in Gold Beach, said Gov. Kate Brown’s closure of bars and restaurants for on-site consumption – necessary to slow transmission of the highly contagious COVID-19 virus – meant orders for beer deliveries were canceled. “Without some type of economic relief, we will be unable to make our payroll nor pay outstanding invoices and bills within 30 days,” Brennan wrote to the committee. “We need some help, please.” The panel met as authorities said two more people died of coronavirus, raising the total number to three, the Oregon Health Authority reported Wednesday. The number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the state rose to 75.
  Harrisburg:  Penn State University on Wednesday canceled in-person classes for the rest of the spring semester, citing the coronavirus pandemic, as state officials announced a 40% jump in the number of confirmed cases. Penn State, which enrolls about 100,000 students at 20 campuses, had previously planned to resume live classroom instruction April  6 but said it needed to take more dramatic action “based on on evolving federal guidance and statewide mitigation plans.” Cases confirmed in Pennsylvania exceeded 130 as of Wednesday, rising by 37, according to the Department of Health. Meanwhile, Philadelphia police announced officers will stop taking nonviolent offenders into physical custody. The department said those offenders who are placed under arrest will be released once their identities are confirmed. From there, they’ll be issued the equivalent of a summons. The city’s new police commissioner, Danielle Outlaw, said Wednesday that “the department is not turning a blind eye to crime” and will continue to enforce all laws. Officers will continue to have discretion if they believe the suspect poses a threat to public safety. 
  Providence:  Election officials want the state to delay its presidential primary by more than a month because of the coronavirus pandemic. The state Board of Elections on Tuesday voted 6 to 1 to ask Gov. Gina Raimondo to postpone the April  28 primary to June  2. The Democratic governor has expressed skepticism about moving the primary, but her office said she was “open to the idea” following the board’s vote. Democratic Secretary of State Nellie Gorbea, who oversees elections, has called for moving to a mail ballot-focused primary. The elections board on Tuesday said moving the primary date would allow officials to better prepare for such an election. The state has recorded more than 20 positive cases of coronavirus. 
  Columbia:  Public classrooms throughout South Carolina have emptied out in response to the ongoing coronavirus outbreak – except in the state’s juvenile jail. On Tuesday, Department of Juvenile Justice spokesman Jarid Munsch said instruction remained ongoing in agency-operated classrooms to which more than 6,700 juveniles were admitted during the past calendar year. Earlier this week, Gov. Henry McMaster ordered the immediate closure of all of the state’s public K-12 schools, colleges, universities and technical schools. All of the facilities were planning to provide long-distance learning for the next two weeks at least. But that order doesn’t apply to the Department of Juvenile Justice. Munsch said agency Director Freddie Pough, after conferring with McMaster, had determined educational services were crucial to DJJ’s mission, thereby making the agency’s instructors part of the “essential, or mission-critical,” employees who needed to continue to report to work at the discretion of their agency heads. That determination prompted eight teachers at the agency’s main complex in Columbia to walk off the job on Monday, Munsch said.
  Sioux Falls:  The state’s public health lab has halted COVID-19 testing due to a shortage of supplies, officials announced Wednesday. The lab had to stop this week after running out of supplies both from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and from private suppliers. It ran tests for medium- and high-risk patients Monday. The Department of Health said there is “no timeframe” for when tests will be available due to a nationwide shortage of supplies for testing. Two of the largest health care providers in South Dakota indicated Tuesday that they are working to develop testing. The Department of Health recommended people exhibiting symptoms of the coronavirus isolate themselves. The department is still telling physicians to send samples to the lab in Pierre for testing when it becomes available.
  Nashville:  Gov. Bill Lee on Wednesday proposed funneling money into relief for tornado and health crises, scaling back planned teacher raises, and socking more cash away into reserves, as the state reacted to the global impact of the coronavirus on everyday life. The Republican’s administration unveiled the scaled-back budget to lawmakers, who are scrambling to pass the spending plan for the 2020-21 fiscal year and other items they said are “mission critical” before they recess this week and head back to work as soon as June  1. “We are now likely embarking on a recession caused by this rare health pandemic,” state Finance Commissioner Stuart McWhorter told lawmakers. Lee’s latest budget – which has a suggested 0% economic growth rate – creates a $150  million fund “to help us be responsive to health and safety issues resulting from COVID-19” and sets aside $575  million to increase the state’s rainy day fund to $1.45  billion by 2021. At the same time, he is now slashing his original proposed teacher pay increases from 4% to 2% and eliminating a proposed $250  million K-12 mental health trust fund. 
  Dallas:  A third person in the state who was infected with the coronavirus has died, health officials said Wednesday. Collin County health officials said a 64-year-old man from the Dallas suburb of Plano died Tuesday night at a local hospital. Officials said the positive test was confirmed after the death of the man, who had an underlying health condition. The second death in Texas related to COVID-19 was announced Tuesday. Large Texas cities including Dallas, Houston and Austin have restricted the sizes of gatherings in efforts to fight the virus’s spread. Tarrant County officials said Texas’ second death linked to the virus was a 77-year-old man who lived in a retirement center in the North Texas city of Arlington. On Tuesday, Gov. Greg Abbott activated the Texas National Guard in response to the outbreak, describing it as a “preparative measure.” He said there were no current plans for deployments.
  Salt Lake City:  Gov. Gary Herbert ordered statewide dine-in closures at restaurants, bars and other eateries Tuesday while health officials in the national parks hot spot of Moab halted new overnight tourists to help stop the spread of the coronavirus. The steps came as the number of statewide cases grew to more than 50. Herbert said he was “very sorry” for the disruption to business and jobs but “convinced this will save many lives.” Restaurants can remain open for takeout, delivery and drive-thru. The statewide order begins Wednesday, following similar steps in Salt Lake City, Park City and other places. Meanwhile, health officials in southeastern Utah issued an order barring anyone except work travelers and locals from overnight lodging, including camping. Those already in hotels before Tuesday night can stay through the duration of their reservation.
  Burlington:  N95 masks, used as protection against coronavirus,  are increasingly difficult to procure in Vermont , a state official said this week – and he’s asking businesses to share supplies with health workers. The masks are “urgently needed in our health care facilities,” Ted Bundy, deputy secretary of the Agency of Commerce and Community Development, wrote Wednesday in an email to regional business groups. Workers in some manufacturing and construction operations routinely use the N95 face mask to filter out fine, airborne particles. They have been proven effective in lowering the risk of breathing in water droplets that could transmit the virus that causes COVID-19, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Meanwhile, the health department  announced five additional cases of COVID-19 in the state , bringing the total reported cases in Vermont to 17.
  Richmond:  The state’s confirmed coronavirus cases rose to more than 75 Wednesday as schools and many businesses remained shuttered and a ban on large gatherings reshaped daily life. Gov. Ralph Northam, who spoke at what has become a daily news conference with other top leaders, did not announce any new restrictions in Virginia’s fight against the global pandemic. Across Virginia, much of the state’s workforce has been encouraged to work from home, and state officials have asked anyone 65 or older or anyone with chronic health conditions to self-quarantine. “This is a very stressful and concerning time for every Virginian,” Northam said. “It is likely to remain so for some time.” Virginia Health Commissioner Dr. Norman Oliver said he expected the number of positive cases of COVID-19 to continue increasing. Virginia has had two deaths so far. Among the cases are three “outbreaks,” which health officials define as two or more cases that can be traced to a common exposure, Oliver said. Two outbreaks are in Richmond and the third is in James City County.
  Seattle:  Staff members who worked while sick at multiple long-term care facilities contributed to the spread of COVID-19 among vulnerable elderly in the Seattle area, federal health officials said Wednesday. At least 30 coronavirus deaths have been linked to Life Care Center in Kirkland. A report Wednesday from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention provided the most detailed account to date of what drove the outbreak. Public health authorities who surveyed long-term care facilities in the area found they didn’t have enough personal protective equipment or other items such as alcohol-based hand sanitizer. They also said nursing homes in the area are vulnerable because staff members worked with symptoms, worked in more than one facility, and sometimes didn’t know about or follow recommendations about protecting their eyes or being careful while in close contact with ill patients. Nursing home officials also were slow to think symptoms might be caused by coronavirus and faced problems from limited testing ability, according to the report.
  Charleston:  State election officials on Wednesday said they are expanding vote-by-mail options to increase primary election turnout in response to concerns about the coronavirus pandemic. Secretary of State Mac Warner said his office will “ramp up” the absentee ballot system to allow people who are worried about getting the virus to cast their votes by mail in the May  12 primary. He encouraged voters to apply for an absentee ballot on the secretary of state’s website as soon as possible. “These are unprecedented times,” Warner said. The move comes after a legal opinion from Attorney General Patrick Morrisey that found absentee balloting can be broadened during a state of emergency. Gov. Jim Justice on Tuesday announced West Virginia had its first resident test positive for the virus. The person in Jefferson County has been voluntarily quarantined since first showing symptoms, according to local health officials who said they are reviewing the person’s contacts to trace the spread of the virus. 
  Madison:  Policymakers scrambled Wednesday to help displaced workers, shuttered bars and restaurants, and others reeling from the COVID-19 pandemic, even as new limitations were placed on child care facilities and the number of confirmed cases in the state topped 100, including a children’s hospital doctor. Gov. Tony Evers ordered that child care settings have no more than 10 staffers and 50 children present at the same time. Providers were asked to prioritize families of health care and essential service providers. The restrictions take effect Thursday at 8  a.m. and are to remain in place indefinitely. The Wisconsin Department of Health Services reported Wednesday that 106 people had tested positive for COVID-19 in 14 counties. There was community spread – where officials can’t trace how or where a person caught the disease – in Milwaukee, Dane and Kenosha counties. Community spread is one factor that is expected to continue to drive the numbers even higher. 
  Jackson:  Airlines are wrapping up winter-season flights to Jackson Hole weeks earlier than usual due to the new coronavirus. During ski season, Jackson Hole Airport sees regular flights from a dozen major cities. The flights continue until Jackson Hole Mountain Resort closes in the first week of April. This year, the resort and two others in northwest Wyoming – Grand Targhee resort and Snow King Resort – have shut down early amid spread of the COVID-19 virus. Along with the ski shutdowns that began Monday, airlines are cutting back service early, the Jackson Hole News & Guide reports. Meanwhile, the number of people testing positive for the COVID-19 virus in Wyoming has reached 15. And two men recently broke into a Douglas hospital to steal protective masks. They also tried to steal gloves and toilet paper, the Casper Star-Tribune reports.
  From USA TODAY Network and wire reports 
 