WASHINGTON — As the toll of the  coronavirus  continues to rise — with more state shutdowns, extensive new layoffs and overwhelmed hospitals — lawmakers and administration officials are turning their focus to what more is needed to counter the pandemic and protect a battered economy.
  President Trump , in a stark change of tone, told Americans on Monday that the peak of fatalities from Covid-19 will not arrive for two more weeks, pleading with the public to continue social distancing in order to get through “a very vital 30 days” that would be a time of national challenge.
  “This is our shared patriotic duty,” he said at a news conference in the White House Rose Garden. “We’re sort of putting it all on the line, this 30 days — so important because we have to get back. But the more we dedicate ourselves today, the more quickly we will emerge on the other side of the crisis, and that’s the time we’re waiting for.”
  Officials are beginning to outline elements of another government relief package to add to the federal response, only days after  Mr. Trump signed into law  a $2 trillion economic stimulus, the largest in American history.
  “We have a list of issues that are immediate — that have a short fuse,” said Speaker Nancy Pelosi, in a nearly 40-minute telephone interview on Monday from her office in the Capitol. She ticked off a list of Democratic priorities, including increased protections and equipment for workers on the front lines of the coronavirus, expanded paid leave, a major new infrastructure investment and additional funds for state and local governments.
  “This isn’t about how fast we can do it,” she added. “It’s how fast we must do it.”
  It is not clear how quickly such a bill could materialize — Republican leaders and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, have said they are not yet certain that more help would be needed, or when — but in outlining her plans on Monday, Ms. Pelosi made it clear that the path to any further government assistance would run through her office, and that Democrats would press for another large package sooner rather than later.
  By Monday afternoon, more than half of the 50 states were under a  directive  to remain at home, meaning that roughly three out of four Americans are or will soon be asked to avoid leaving their homes as part of a broad effort to stall the spread of the virus.
  Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the United States’ leading infectious disease expert, said that the country as a whole would see the death toll rise. “I wouldn’t be surprised if we saw over 100,000 deaths,” he said.
  The Comfort, a Navy hospital ship,  docked in Manhattan on Monday  to provide relief to New York’s overwhelmed hospitals and to help treat patients who do not have the coronavirus. And even with billions of dollars in funds being allocated to both states and hospitals, officials say more will probably be needed as the virus continues to spread and portions of the economy continue to shutter.
  More than 66,500 cases had been identified in New York State by Monday, with the death toll surpassing 1,200,  by far the most of any state .
  Arizona, Virginia and Maryland, as well as the District of Columbia, issued new orders on Monday for residents to stay home. And in Florida, Gov. Ron DeSantis, a Republican who had resisted a statewide edict, said that he would sign a directive codifying a patchwork of local rules urging residents in the densely populated southeast corner of the state — including Miami-Dade, Broward, Palm Beach and Monroe Counties — to stay home.
  Even as Mr. Trump suggested that his administration was allowing governors to do “pretty much what they want, with our supervision,” Dr. Deborah L. Birx, the White House coronavirus response coordinator, said every governor and mayor should carry out new, longer-term distancing guidelines put in place on Sunday.
  “When you look at all of the states together, all of them are moving at exactly the same curve,” she said. “And that’s why we really believe this needs to be federal guidance, so that every state understands that it may look like two cases today that becomes 20, that become 200, that become 2,000 — and that’s what we’re trying to prevent.”
  Mr. Trump continued to clash behind the scenes with governors over the availability of testing, suggesting on a private call that a chronic lack of kits to test people for Covid-19 is no longer a problem even as some of them insisted that they still lacked the supplies they needed.
  Across the country, companies — including several major retailers — announced huge layoffs. Macy’s, which had 125,000 employees at the end of last year, said on Monday that it would furlough most of them after having lost “the majority” of its sales because of store closures. L Brands, which owns Victoria’s Secret and Bath & Body Works, also said it would furlough most store staff, and Gap said on Monday it would furlough nearly 80,000 store employees in the United States and Canada.
  In Washington, Ms. Pelosi and other officials involved in previous negotiations have acknowledged that it is unlikely that any legislation to address the crisis would be ready for a floor vote before mid-April, with both the House and Senate in recess and not scheduled to return to Capitol Hill until April 20.
  Some officials involved in the talks, including Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the minority leader, have suggested there may be no need for another round of government relief. Mr. Mnuchin, who had previously said he expected a second round of direct payments to Americans would be needed, also said on Sunday that he hoped it would not be.
  In less than four weeks, Congress has approved and Mr. Trump has signed into law three bills totaling more than $2 trillion worth of government aid, including a significant expansion of the social safety net and a $500 billion bailout for distressed companies — a stunning outpouring of federal resources that is only beginning to be put into effect across the country.
  But even before the stimulus measure was complete, Ms. Pelosi had begun laying the groundwork for a far-reaching fourth measure, including at a ceremony right after the legislation passed the House.
  “What I’m going to do is call you guys and see what suggestions you have for Phase 4 because we should start writing it right now,” Ms. Pelosi could be overheard telling Representative Richard E. Neal, Democrat of Massachusetts and the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, Representative Nydia M. Velázquez, Democrat of New York and the chairwoman of the  House Small Business Committee , and Representative Maxine Waters, Democrat of California and the chairwoman of the Financial Services Committee. Ms. Pelosi listed a number of items, including “direct payments” and “more hospital funds.”
  “We’re going to need more cash in the system,” Mr. Neal said in response, while Ms. Waters assured Ms. Pelosi: “We’ll give it our best shot.”
  In an interview, Mr. Neal said a major new plan to build roads and bridges    should be part of such a bill.
  “It’s time to take on the infrastructure issue,” he said. “You treat that as an economic investment.”
  Any such measure would also have to pass the Senate, where majority Republicans have pushed back on many of Democrats’ highest priorities, seeking to pare back paid leave and jobless aid.
  In the interview on Monday, Ms. Pelosi emphasized the need to secure more equipment for health workers on the front lines, known as personal protective equipment, and ventilators for hospitals. She said Democrats would most likely revisit a push to bolster pensions and medical leave provisions, and would work to ensure that other aspects of treatment for the coronavirus, beyond the initial test, would be covered by the government.
  She also said she would like to see more measures aimed at getting money directly into the hands of individuals and families, including a possible retroactive  rollback of the limit on the state and local tax deduction , a change that  hurt high earners  in states like New York and California.
  “They’d have more disposable income, which is the lifeblood of our economy, a consumer economy that we are,” Ms. Pelosi said.
  A fourth package could offer an opportunity for negotiators to revisit a number of provisions that were either left out altogether or prompted last-minute consternation among lawmakers, including lingering concerns among Democrats over strict oversight requirements they demanded for the $500 billion corporate bailout fund.
  The Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency announced on Monday that  Glenn A. Fine, the acting inspector general at the Defense Department , would oversee the Pandemic Response Accountability Committee, which is responsible for oversight of all of the funds allocated in the legislation approved so far.
  In a signing statement on Friday, Mr. Trump suggested he had the power to decide what information a newly created inspector general intended to monitor the bailout money could share with Congress — in effect ignoring  some of the oversight conditions .
  But Ms. Pelosi made it clear that if the administration did not honor the conditions, it would receive no cooperation from Congress on future legislation to deal with the pandemic.
  “We have passed legislation with conditions in it,” Ms. Pelosi said. “I believe they understand that it isn’t the last bill that will ever be passed, and if they expect any future cooperation on anything else, that they should honor this bill.”
  Still, she said that Mr. Trump’s tendency to undercut what other members of his team agree to in complicated negotiations made it more difficult to hammer out the kind of relief plans that are needed in a crisis.
  In her past talks with Republican administrations, she said, “We have a true negotiation, not, ‘I’m going to run back and ask Daddy — what I can do about this?’”
  “That’s unfortunately the situation that Mnuchin was in,” she said. “But, again, he’s the person they want us to chat with. That’s who we’ll talk with.”
 