The confirmation of two deaths from coronavirus in Florida became the first fatalities outside of California and Washington state, and new cases were confirmed in new areas of the U.S. Friday.
  The death toll in the U.S. from the coronavirus outbreak rose to 17 on Friday, with more than 330 cases confirmed across the country. Pennsylvania has announced its first cases. Johns Hopkins University announced that more than 100,000 people have been infected worldwide.
  Health experts are urging people to continue practicing preventative measures, such as routine hand washing, in order to avoid the virus.
  President Donald Trump on Friday morning signed a   to combat the virus.
  
  
  
  Dareh Gregorian
  Vice President Mike Pence said Friday that 21 people aboard a cruise ship that's being held off the   have tested positive for the .
  The California Air National Guard had delivered 46 tests to the   which has been offshore since Wednesday. Of the 46 passengers tested, Pence said 21 people, 19 employees and two passengers, had tested positive. Twenty-four tested negative, and one was inconclusive, Pence said.
  There are over 3,500 people on board the ship, which is anchored near San Francisco.
  
  Elizabeth Chuck
  The United States "desperately" needs more tests to screen for the new coronavirus, a public health expert told Congress on Friday.
  "Testing capacity is not currently adequate, and we need more," said Dr. Lisa Maragakis, senior director of infection prevention for the Johns Hopkins Health System and an epidemiologist. "We need this as soon as we can have it."
  Maragakis' remarks were part of a briefing on Capitol Hill by five experts from Johns Hopkins, which has been  the international outbreak.
  While other countries have run tens of thousands of tests — South Korea has  more than 100,000 patients — the U.S. has  . Technical glitches and narrow criteria for who could be tested initially hampered the efforts.
  The test kit's technical problems have since been resolved and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines expanded. And while testing capacity has increased, promises made by the Trump administration have yet to come to fruition.
   for the full story.
  UPDATE: We have learned of 11 new confirmed cases of   in NYS — bringing the total number of cases to 44. -8 of the new new cases are in Westchester County -3 of the new cases are in Nassau County We have expected the number of positive cases to go up as we test.
  Ahiza García-Hodges
  The city of Austin announced on Friday that it would be canceling SXSW, the conference and festival hosted there each year. SXSW is now the latest major event to be called off over coronavirus-related concerns.
  The decision comes after numerous major events, including Google I/O, Facebook’s F8 Developer Conference and IBM’s Think conference have all been canceled across the country.
  In the face of these cancelations, SXSW, which had been scheduled for March 13-22, had continued to move forward with its plans, adding speakers as recently as this week. 
  In 2019, SXSW drew over 417,000 visitors from 106 countries during its two weeks. According to a report released by SXSW, the event had a $356 million impact on Austin’s economy in 2019.
  Hallie Jackson
  The White House is changing its rules for on-campus guests and considering additional precautions, including pausing White House tours and temperature checks for visitors to the White House, according to a senior White House official. 
  All guests will have to disclose the countries they have visited in the last 30 days. That information will then be reviewed by the White House access team, which is overseen by the Secret Service, to cross-reference with any country listed with a coronavirus outbreak.
  Tony Ornato, White House deputy chief of staff for operations, is currently monitoring the ongoing situation and assessing the visitors policy as it relates to any changes that might be needed, the official said.
  Press Secretary Stephanie Grisham said the White House "will continue to reassess circumstances and adopt new processes and safe practices in line with evolving HHS, CDC & OPM guidance to include: educating staff on hygiene best practices, existing sick day & telework policies, increased cleaning routines for high-traffic areas, and asking staff to be alert to the CDC & DoS’ current set of international health & travel advisories when scheduling meetings or travel, and inviting people onto the complex."
  Reuters
  Costa Rica's government on Friday said it confirmed its first case of coronavirus, in a 49-year-old woman from the United States who is in the Central American nation with her husband.
  The instance marks the first confirmed infection of the fast-spreading coronavirus in Central America.
  Colombia also confirmed its first case of coronavirus on Friday, joining other South American countries already reporting cases of the fast-spreading disease.
  What are your biggest questions about the coronavirus outbreak? Tonight on  , our   talks to an expert about how we can protect ourselves. Watch at 6:30 ET/5:30 CT on NBC (check your local listings).  
   2019 Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) Advisory Two new cases of confirmed COVID-19 in Los Angeles County. There are no known public exposure locations. View for more    
 