Cases across California are quicking rising, with half in the 18-49 age range. To help slow the spread, tourist-friendly destinations are asking you to hold off on that visit. Plus, some Princess Cruise ship passengers are cleared to go home this week. First order of business: Hugging a spouse.
  It's  Arlene Martínez  with news for Tuesday.
  In California has coronavirus news and resources to keep you safe and informed, pulling content from across USA TODAY Network newsrooms and beyond.  Sign up for free delivery .  
  Let's start  with some top headlines:
  The state's first under-18 resident,  of Lancaster,  has died of coronavirus . The youth's father is also infected,  officials say . Gov. Gavin Newsom says cases are growing at a startling pace, with 50% of them now  in the 18-49 age group . 
  Newsom tells state agencies not to expect "full funding for either new or existing proposals.” 
  A loss of smell and taste  could be symptoms of coronavirus,  health officials are warning. 
  Criminal and civil trials are on hold for 60 days ,  the state's chief justice rules. 
  Kaiser Permanente cancels plans to spend $900 million  building new headquarters in Oakland. City officials say it's not linked to the coronavirus,  and it isn't the only new development impacted by rising construction costs and tariffs .
  The U.S. is on track to become the new epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak ,  the World Health Organization warns as cases here surge . India, Italy and the United Kingdom have locked down the country  as President Trump says he hopes to "open up" the nation by Easter .
  The L.A. Clippers appear   poised to move to Inglewood .
  Golden State coronavirus tracker:   2,561 cases, 50 deaths. 
  Towns to other towns' residents: #StayatHome, please
  Big Bear Lake is asking all non-residents to stay away.  Palm Springs has limited short-term stays at hotels or vacation homes, except for critical workers. Rancho Mirage is threatening a $5,000 fine or more for any vacation rentals that don't list themselves as "unavailable" on rental websites through June 1.
  While escaping to the mountains or the desert might be appealing for Californians who want to flee denser population centers during the statewide shelter-in-place order, some communities are cracking down on lodging regulations.
  The goal is clear:  Prevent an influx of visitors who could increase transmission of the coronavirus and overwhelm already taxed health care systems. 
  “The phenomenon of droves of people coming into one small community from various different communities flies directly in the face of what the state’s order is trying to accomplish in terms of slowing the spread and flattening the curve,” said David Wert, public information officer for San Bernardino County.
  Big Bear Lake Mayor Rick Herrick  earlier this week   tested positive for coronavirus,  the 10th confirmed COVID-19 case in San Bernardino County .
  Working in a state-approved "essential" industry  means work (luckily) continues, but for the farmworkers who make sure food gets to our tables, three days of sick leave may not cut it.  And even though growers are implementing social distancing measures, at home is a different story.  
  Coronavirus layoffs disproportionately hurt black and Latino workers : “We know that when the economy goes into decline,  people of color always bear the brunt ."
  Respirator valves, masks and more: The 3-D industry works to fill in gaps in a time of pandemic .
  CVS is hiring 50,000 workers   and giving bonuses to those on the front lines. 
  Will a $69 billion, one-month loss in the country's largest pension fund  mean California's government workers will shift to a 401(k) style retirement plan? Not likely. But we've been here before —  even 11 years of economic growth wasn't enough to get CalPERS anywhere close to pre-Great Recession funding . 
  He helped eradicate smallpox . Here's Larry Brilliant on why coronavirus was inevitable, how we're responding and  what it will take to make the world look normal again . 
  This Redding resident is still shaking hands   because he's a coronavirus skeptic . 
  As the world’s families hunker down, another danger worries advocates and officials:  a potential spike in domestic violence as victims spend day and night trapped at home with their abusers , with tensions rising, nowhere to escape, limited or no access to friends or relatives — and no idea when it will end.
  In Los Angeles, officials have been bracing for a spike in abuse. “When cabin fever sets in, give it a week or two, people get tired of seeing each other and then you might have domestic violence,” said Alex Villanueva, the sheriff of Los Angeles County.
  “We started getting on this as soon as we started seeing the handwriting on the wall,” said Patti Giggans, executive director of the nonprofit Peace Over Violence in Los Angeles.
  In a five-day period last week, 700 callers to the National Domestic Violence Hotline cited the coronavirus as “a condition of their experience." 
  That hotline is 1-800-799-SAFE (7233). 
  Many Golden State passengers who got off the Grand Princess cruise ship in Oakland — after being stuck at sea for several days when coronavirus was found onboard  — were immediately whisked away and quarantined. This week,  the first of them left Travis Air Force Base east of the San Francisco Bay area .  
  Donna Kaletta expected to leave Tuesday and she had a top-of-the-list plan for when she got back to San Jose: "Hug my husband," she said. "It's been a month."
  Yes, she ate turkey sandwiches for seven days straight, but there were kind gestures, Kaletta shared, like the staff member who used his own money to buy her dad a sweatshirt. He had, after all, packed for a Hawaii trip.
  Officials haven't released numbers on how many of the 3,500 aboard ended up testing positive for coronavirus.
  "Wonder Woman 1984," a "Friends" reunion and a "Scooby-Doo" reboot:   Among Tinseltown and beyond's postponements. 
  Free movies, shows, comic books and audiobooks   to enjoy while you're self-quarantining . 
  You're house-hunting right now  because you're one of the super lucky ones.  Here's what $660,000 will buy you in Los Angeles . 
  Nowhere to go  but now you've got time to train a puppy and walk a dog.  So pet adoption it is. 
  I'll leave you today  with this bit of good news: Chances are, if you're working from home,  you're saving money.  Cheers to that.
  In California is a roundup of news from across USA TODAY Network newsrooms. Also contributing: Wired, San Francisco Chronicle, Fresno Bee, The New Yorker, 401K Specialist, Associated Press, U.S. News & World Report, LA Curbed, Forbes. 
 