Florida reported Sunday the largest single-day increase in positive COVID-19 cases in any state since the pandemic began: 15,300. In May, Florida became one of the first states to begin reopening its economy. But this past week was Florida's deadliest:  almost 500 fatalities . And cases nationally, as well as deaths, will only continue to rise as a long-expected upturn in the United States has begun —  driven by fatalities in states in the South and West .
  Adm. Brett Giroir, a member of the White House coronavirus task force, said Sunday that the increasing number of hospitalizations related to COVID-19 is  "very concerning" and warned of an increase in deaths . "We expect hospitalizations to continue to go up," Giroir said, noting more Americans will die from the virus "over the next two or three weeks before this turns around." 
  Trump dons mask in public 
  President Donald Trump visited with wounded soldiers and front-line medical workers Saturday while wearing what – for him – is an uncommon accessory:  a mask . Trump, who has been criticized by public health officials for not wearing face coverings in public, has softened his opposition to wearing masks in recent days. But public health officials say he should have set a better example, arguing that too many Trump followers have followed his no-mask lead and contributed to the spread of the deadly virus.
  More on coronavirus: 
  Just less than two weeks after one of his most prominent corporate sponsors urged him to change the name of his football team, Washington owner Daniel Snyder plans to  announce the retirement of the "Redskins" nickname and reveal a new team name  Monday morning, a person with knowledge of the situation confirmed to USA TODAY. The new name remains unknown, but Warriors, Red Wolves and Redtails have ranked among the post popular choices among fans on social media. Snyder has long ignored requests of Native American tribes and other organizations to change the name because some deem the term offensive, citing the fact that the dictionary classifies it as a racial slur. 
  Walt Disney World reopened to the public Saturday morning in Florida — the same day the state recorded more than 15,000 new cases of COVID-19 — nearly four months after closing due to the pandemic. But what Disney-lovers returned to wasn't what they left in March: there are many more safety precautions in place. It's a totally different world for park visitors, who are required to have their temperature taken when they arrive. Face masks are mandatory, except when eating or swimming and hand-sanitizing stations are sprinkled throughout the park.  Here's how opening day went down .
  An amphibious assault ship caught fire after an explosion on Sunday at Naval Base San Diego,  resulting in an on-board explosion that injured 17 sailors and four civilians and filled the skies with dark smoke . Naval Base San Diego public information officer Krishna Jackson said the blaze was reported shortly before 9 a.m. local time.The entire crew of the USS Bonhomme Richard has been accounted for and all are off the 840-foot vessel, according to a statement from Naval Surface Forces. Approximately 160 sailors were aboard the ship at the time, officials said — far fewer than if the ship was on active duty.
  The search to find actress Naya Rivera in a Southern California lake resumed Sunday  as authorities continued to check the water, surrounding buildings and shores . Best known for her role on "Glee," Rivera is presumed dead after disappearing from a rented boat on a lake in Southern California Wednesday. Authorities on Saturday shared the methods by which they are searching for Rivera, including using technology such as sonar and a remotely operated underwater vehicle. “We don’t know if she’s going to be found five minutes from now or five days from now,” Ventura County Sheriff's Office Capt. Eric Buschow said at a news conference Friday.
  President Donald Trump commuted Roger Stone's 40-month sentence late Friday —  days before the president's longtime confidant was set to report to prison . The grant, which wiped out Stone's sentence but left his conviction in place, brings the years-long battle over Russia's involvement in the 2016 election back to the forefront in the middle of Trump's bid for reelection. Stone was found guilty in November of lying to Congress and obstructing the Russia investigation. White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany described Stone as "a victim of the Russia Hoax."
  Two police officers were killed Saturday in a southern Texas town  while responding to a disturbance call . The shooting happened so quickly that "our officers did not draw their weapons, did not fire, never stood a chance," said Victor Rodriguez, police chief of McAllen, Texas. The suspect met the officers at the door and shot them, police say, and then died by suicide when being confronted by police after the incident. Rodriguez identified the officers who were killed as 45-year-old Edelmiro Garza Jr. and 39-year-old Ismael Chavez.
  P.S. Like this round up of stories?  We send it to inboxes every afternoon.  Sign up for "The Short List" newsletter here . 
  This is a compilation of stories from across the USA TODAY Network. Contributing: Associated Press. 
 