Millions of students across the United States are facing a Monday without school  as part of a sweeping attempt to contain the spread of the coronavirus . At least 20 states and a number of large urban school districts — including Los Angeles, the nation's second-largest — are shutting down all K-12 schools, upending school and family routines. And a growing number of individual districts around the country have also chosen to close. School districts that are shutting down face daunting decisions: Whether they will continue meal service for low-income families, whether to offer online instruction, and what to do about federally mandated state exams, which are often administered in spring.
  Prefer to listen? Check out the 5 things podcast below and  subscribe for free  on Apple Podcasts:  
  Legislation to provide economic relief to Americans affected by coronavirus  is heading to the Senate for an expected vote Monday . The Families First Coronavirus Response Act would ensure sick leave for affected workers and include money for coronavirus testing for Americans, including the uninsured. Trump and lawmakers have been under pressure to ease fears over the spread of COVID-19, which has halted many parts of public life, forced the closure of schools and pummeled financial markets.
  With the NFL and NFL Players Association agreeing on Sunday to a new collective bargaining agreement, the league can now turn its attention to the remainder of its calendar. Next up: the NFL's  noon Monday deadline for applying the franchise tag to players . Utilizing the designation permits a team to retain a player's rights on a one-year deal, though the two sides have until July 15 to agree to a multi-year contract. Perhaps the highest-profile decision revolves around Dallas Cowboys quarterback Dak Prescott, whose rookie contract is expiring. The next big date on the NFL calendar is the start of free agency, which begins Wednesday at 4 p.m. ET.
  President Donald Trump and six other world leaders will hold a virtual summit Monday to coordinate a global response to the coronavirus,  French President Emmanuel Macron said Friday . The videoconference of G-7 leaders will focus on research efforts to find a vaccine, as well as an economic response to the crisis, which has rocked global markets and sparked fears of a recession. Following a call with Trump, “we agreed to organize an extraordinary Leaders Summit by video conference on Monday on COVID-19,” Macron announced on Twitter.
  Stocks are  poised for a plunge Monday as Dow futures tumbled more than 1,000 points  on Sunday. The drop came after the Federal Reserve surprised markets on Sunday by cutting short-term interest rates to zero and launching a fresh round of crisis-era bond purchases — an emergency move to combat the economic shocks from the coronavirus pandemic. Dow futures plunged and Standard & Poor's 500 futures dropped 5%, triggering an automatic shock absorber. Wall Street was still anxiously awaiting an aid package from Washington that investors hope can help cushion the economy from the slowdown in economic activity. 
 