President Donald Trump said the U.S. is deploying  1,000 military medical personnel to New York City to help battle the coronavirus . At a White House briefing on Saturday, Trump said they will be sent Sunday and Monday to New York, “where they’re needed most.” Personnel to be deployed will include doctors, nurses, respiratory specialists and others, Trump announced. The number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the U.S. has now topped 337,000, and over 9,600 deaths have been reported. Worldwide, more than 1.2 million cases have been confirmed and over 69,000 deaths reported.
  Prefer to listen? Check out the 5 things podcast below and  subscribe for free  on Apple Podcasts:  
  Ellen DeGeneres and Wendy Williams are returning to their regularly scheduled TV shows  ... remotely. "The Ellen DeGeneres Show" will be filmed from the comedian's home with guest appearances, like other talk shows, via video chat. Jennifer Lopez, Chrissy Teigen and John Legend are all scheduled to appear on episodes that will begin airing April 6. "The Wendy Williams Show" is also expected to return to TV April 6 with new episodes from the talk show host's home in New York City that will include her well known segments "Hot Topics," "Ask Wendy" and celebrity interviews. The hosts are far from alone.  Jimmy Fallon, Jimmy Kimmel, Al Roker and Savannah Guthrie are all working from home, too .
  General Motors will  start making face masks on Monday  at its once-shuttered Warren Transmission plant to offset a severe shortage of masks caused by the coronavirus pandemic. Once production is at full scale, GM will make 50,000 masks a day, or up to 1.5 million a month. The masks are level one, meaning they cannot be worn in surgery, but rather are worn by delivery people and others who keep the hospital and communities running. 
  Quibi, an app-based streaming service hoping to establish itself in the world of Netflix, Hulu and Disney+ with a torrent of star-studded, bite-sized programming, launches Monday. Designed exclusively for mobile phones,  Quibi plans to release 175 original shows and 8,500 "quick bites" of content  in its first year. The streaming service will feature a wide range of stars, including  LeBron James, whose “I Promise” documentary series makes its debut Monday . Quibi will showcase 15 episodes capturing the varying successes and challenges James, teachers and students have faced since the opening of the “I Promise School” in 2018 in James' hometown of Akron, Ohio. Monthly subscriptions will cost $4.99 with advertising and $7.99 for an ad-free version. 
  The best TV shows and movies  to stream in April,  from James Bond to 'Parasite'  
  The Elton John-led, star-studded benefit  concert that raised more than $10 million to battle the coronavirus  will be re-aired Monday on Fox. Billie Eilish, Mariah Carey and Alicia Keys performed from their homes on “Fox Presents the iHeart Living Room Concert for America,” a virtual concert to help fight the spread of coronavirus that originally premiered last Sunday on Fox and iHeartMedia radio station. The money raised during the airings will go to Feeding America and First Responders Children’s Foundation.
 