(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s  the sign-up .)  
  Good evening. Here’s the latest. 
  1. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  recommended that Americans wear face masks in public to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, though President Trump said the guidance was “voluntary.”
  A surge in demand for masks has led to  a kind of global supply-chain bedlam . In the United States, the federal government has decided against ordering factories to produce more protective gear and is instead competing against states, hospitals and medical suppliers for the same worldwide pool of masks, which are mostly made in China.
  States and hospitals have little experience negotiating with China, and that opens the way for middlemen of all stripes to step in. The result is that production of masks is soaring, but so are scams, logistical hurdles and, of course, prices.
  Quotable : “All of these people are coming out of the woodwork, and all of them mysteriously now have access to an abundant supply,” said Susan Houghtelling, a hospital manager in upstate New York.
  The Trump administration is trying to use its wartime powers, though,  to cut off 3M’s ability to export face masks  and claim more of the ones manufactured by the company in other countries.
  The Times is providing free access to  much of our coronavirus coverage , and our  Coronavirus Briefing newsletter  — like all of our newsletters — is free. Please consider  supporting our journalism with a subscription .
  2. Cellphones blared in unison across New York City this evening. 
  In the epicenter of the United States’ coronavirus outbreak, an emergency alert went out seeking health care workers to treat a deluge of patients, as hospitals run short of both personnel and supplies.
  The number of deaths in New York State  nearly doubled in just three days , to 2,935 on Friday. More people were reported to have died of the virus over the past 24 hours — a total of 562 — than in the first 27 days of March.
  In New York City, officials are warning that hospitals are just days away from a “D-Day,” when the caseload overwhelms the system. Specialists who haven’t worked an intensive care shift in years  are being pressed into duty .
  “It’s hard to go through this all day, and then it’s hard to stay up all night, watching those numbers come in and the number of deaths tick up,” Gov. Andrew Cuomo said at his daily briefing.
  3.   The official unemployment rate is now 4.4 percent  — but that number is a keyhole’s view of a mountain.
  The data that went into  the March jobs report , released today, largely missed the last two weeks, when almost 10 million people filed for unemployment. The actual jobless rate is probably  higher than at any point since the Great Depression : We think it’s around 13 percent, and climbing at a velocity never seen in American history.
  The stock markets finished lower , giving up much of the gains of Thursday. President Vladimir Putin said Russia would cut oil production to raise prices if the U.S. dropped its traditional price policy and did the same.  Here are live updates from our Business desk. 
  As small-business owners decide whether to cut jobs to keep business alive, the factors they’re weighing are  fraught and extremely personal . Meanwhile, high above the devastation, some hedge funds and private equity firms are  eagerly circling .
  4. A martyr emerges from an aircraft carrier. 
  The  removal of Capt. Brett Crozier , above, as commander of the aircraft carrier Theodore Roosevelt is being greeted by civilians and many in the military as emblematic of a failed, evasive government response to the coronavirus.
  In gripping scenes, Captain Crozier was escorted off the carrier in Guam after he was removed from command for disseminating a letter — in violation of the chain of command, the Pentagon says — calling for the evacuation of about 5,000 crew members to protect them from a coronavirus outbreak on the ship.
  While the exact circumstances of his relief from duty are disputed, the rank and file shouted their support in his cinematic exit. The firing could have a chilling effect at U.S. military outposts all over the world, where commanders are  curtailing elite operations  under threat from contagion.
  5. “Terrible decisions” for Britain’s doctors. 
  For years, the country has told doctors that in the case of a pandemic, they should prepare to withhold scarce resources from the weakest patients in order to save more of the strong, especially with the use of ventilators.
  But that guidance was mostly theoretical, until now. Since the pandemic arrived, the country’s health authorities have failed  to detail exactly how to make those agonizing choices . Several recent attempts at establishing rankings for patient care have triggered a public outcry, and some doctors are seeking to reassure frail patients that they won’t be left to die.
  6. “I wouldn’t know a pop chart from a Pop-Tart,”  Bill Withers said in 2015.
  But the singer and songwriter was being more than a little modest: Over his career, he won three Grammys and recorded immortal tunes like “Lean on Me,” “Use Me” and “Ain’t No Sunshine.”
  He  died this week at the age of 81 .
  7. Criticizing Uganda’s longtime president  is a risky endeavor.
  It has landed one of his most potent foes, Stella Nyanzi, above, in prison — but that has  not kept her from speaking out . The scholar and feminist mixes profanity and bawdy humor with razor-sharp political insights to taunt President Yoweri Museveni, who has ruled the country for 34 years.
  8. It’s far from the usual Pornhub fare. 
  “Shakedown,” a verité-style documentary  directed by Leilah Weinraub, above, and produced by the pornography site (which is seeing increased visits these days, of course), looks at a strip club in Los Angeles that caters to black lesbians.
  Though decidedly not-safe-for-work, the film isn’t voyeurism but an intimate look at a tight-knit community with a utopian air, and at the lives of dancers whose cash goes to things like nail appointments and babysitters.
  9. It sounds like an ingredient  in a witch’s brew: thousands of living skin cells taken from a frog embryo.
  Scientists working under the umbrella of DARPA, the futuristic research wing of the U.S. Department of Defense, have  turned that organic muck into tiny creatures  — if they can be called that.
  No bigger than a poppy seed, these programmable organisms — called xenobots and revealed in a scientific paper in January — live for about a week and can heal from injuries. Their uses could conceivably extend to medicine and even to clean up plastics in the oceans.
  10. Sonic meditation, anyone? 
  Here’s something offbeat you could try this weekend: Every Saturday in April, anyone who likes to sing can be part of a  global “Tuning Meditation”  via zoom. Our music critic gave it a try last Saturday and she said it ended up sounding like a “cosmic flock of bleating sheep.”
  Or let us  guide you through a short meditation session , with advice from experts and soothing sights and sounds from nature.
  Have a peaceful evening.
  Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern. 
  And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing.  Sign up here  to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European, African or American morning. 
  Want to catch up on past briefings?  You can browse them here . 
  What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at  briefing@nytimes.com . 
 