(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  sign-up .)
  In an unusual news conference on Monday, Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s closest aide, Dominic Cummings,  sought the public’s sympathy but did not apologize  for breaking Britain’s lockdown rules by driving hundreds of miles outside London with his son and ailing wife in March.
  Mr. Cummings defended his actions as “reasonable under the circumstances,” saying he went to his parents’ home in Durham to ensure his son would receive care should he and his wife both fall ill.
  The scandal has consumed the British news media for days, and most prime ministers might have cut Mr. Cummings loose by now. But Mr. Johnson is still supporting him, illustrating what analysts see as his deep reliance on the mercurial adviser.
  Mr. Johnson announced on Monday the relaxing of more restrictions, with outdoor markets and car dealerships to reopen on June 1, and department stores and small shops on June 15.
  Case study:  The death toll in British nursing homes — 14,000, official figures say, with thousands more dying indirectly because of the virus — is becoming a defining scandal for Mr. Johnson. In one Scottish nursing home,  nearly all residents were infected and more than a quarter of them died .
  Here are  the latest updates  and  maps of where the virus has spread .
  In other developments: 
  President Vladimir Putin’s promise of cash bonuses for the doctors and nurses leading Russia’s battle with the coronavirus  has turned into a bureaucratic mess , with some health workers getting visits from the police instead of money.
  The promise of up to $1,100 a month for each doctor was meant to showcase Mr. Putin’s proudest achievement, the revitalization of the Russian state after the chaos of the 1990s.
  But fewer than half of medical workers nationwide have gotten the money, Mr. Putin recently said, accusing officials in 29 regions of ignoring his order. And some medical workers who went public about it were questioned by the authorities. 
  Quotable:  “The diagnosis is obvious,” Dmitri Drize, a Moscow-based human rights lawyer, said. “Officials have forgotten how to make decisions on their own. And this disease is worse than the coronavirus.”
  Background:  Russia has over 350,000 cases, more than any other country except the United States and Brazil. Mr. Putin’s approval rating has taken a beating over the government’s handling of the coronavirus crisis. 
  Spain, which normally sees more tourists than any country but France,  will lift a two-week quarantine requirement for overseas visitors starting in July , the government said on Monday. Outdoor dining and gatherings of up to 10 people will be allowed in Madrid and Barcelona starting this week.
  But as restrictions ease, other problems await. Spain is known for its litigiousness, and lawyers and judges are bracing for  an onslaught of new court cases  stemming from the virus, expected to overwhelm a judicial system that was already bogged down.
  Details:  One judge expects as many as 150,000 people to file for bankruptcy, compared with a few thousand last year. And some Spaniards who lost loved ones to the virus have filed a lawsuit accusing the government of negligent homicide.
  As Australia’s infection rates decline, a milestone came on Monday, as children went back to school in parts of the country. Damien Cave, our Sydney bureau chief,  wrote about the joy  of packing his kids’ lunches again after seven weeks.
  “What have we learned? Honestly, less about school than ourselves,” he wrote. “Our children said they were surprised to discover how hard their parents worked. I come away with a deeper understanding of my children as students.”
  U.S. presidential race:  Former Vice President Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee,  made his first public appearance since mid-March  on Monday, in a mask. President Trump went mask-less at Memorial Day events.
  New Zealand quake : A  magnitude-5.8 earthquake  struck Monday while Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern was giving a live television interview, but it did not cause major damage — nor did it disrupt Ms. Ardern’s calm demeanor.
  In Memoriam:  Marcus Ospel , who turned the Swiss bank UBS into a global banking power that nearly toppled during the 2008 financial crisis, died at 70 in Switzerland.
  Snapshot:  How will we remember the pandemic? Museums are already  searching for artifacts  to capture how Americans navigated life amid the coronavirus. Above, a photo by Russ Rowland submitted to the Museum of the City of New York.
  Hannah Gadsby:  Back with a new Netflix set, “Douglas,” the comedian talks about  trolls, anti-vaxxers and burying her dog .
  What we’re looking at:   The poppy field cams  on the California Department of Parks and Recreation website and  virtual tours  of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden — for when you “long for the outside world,” says Jenna Wortham, a Times Magazine staff writer.
  Cook:  Momofuku’s Bo Ssam, a  slow-roasted pork shoulder  served with lettuce, rice and a raft of condiments. Our Food editor, Sam Sifton, calls it “a gift to the world” in  his weekly roundup of cooking ideas .
  Watch:  The Cannes Film Festival was canceled this year because of the pandemic, but our critics have singled out  highlights from its past  (and a few less-than-stellar prizewinners).
  Do:  Travel-themed board games are about more than winning. Here’s a list of  all sorts of travel games  inspired by landmarks, train rides and hotels.
  Look:  With museums closed,  coffee-table books bring the art  to you, including works from Gerhard Richter and Jean-Michel Basquiat.
  There are many more ideas on what to read, cook, watch and do while staying safe at home in  our At Home section.   
  The U.S. government’s annual Atlantic hurricane forecast came out on Thursday, and it’s worrisome. A typical hurricane season has 12 named storms. This year’s season — which could start any day now — is likely to have between 13 and 19,  according to the forecast .
  Christopher Flavelle, a Times reporter who covers the climate, recently called Samantha Montano, a professor of emergency management at the University of Nebraska, Omaha, and asked her what was making local officials nervous as hurricane season approached. Her answer: a shortage of volunteers, caused by the coronavirus.
  The U.S. disaster response system relies heavily on volunteers, most of whom are older people at higher risk from the virus. Many of them won’t be able to fly to disaster zones. 
  “Volunteers do everything,” Dr. Montano said — handing out donations, moving debris off the roads, repairing houses, helping survivors navigate state and federal aid programs. “Every single task we do in emergency management involves volunteers,” she said.
  Christopher began calling major volunteer organizations and found deep anxiety about the problem. His article describes  the many ways that the virus threatens to undermine disaster relief.  “The story that emerged made me think of an aging sedan, its parts failing in sequence,” he says. “And we keep trying to make it go faster.”
 