More than two-thirds of registered voters want to see election laws changed to allow them to cast their ballots by mail in November because of concerns about the coronavirus outbreak, according to an  NBC News/Wall Stree Journal poll . 
  A majority (58%) support changing state laws around the country to allow mail-in-voting, the poll found, and 39% opposed the idea. But when those who said they were against it were asked if they would support changing the laws to allow people to mail in their ballots just for this year because of coronavirus concerns, the number in favor rose to 67% and opposed dropped to 29%. 
  The poll revealed a strong shift in support for mail-in-voting from 1996, when a Pew poll found the country was about split on the issue with 48% in support of changing the laws to allow it and 47% opposed. 
  In response to the infection, many states have  rescheduled their primary elections  for later in the year. But health experts such as Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, have said that the coronavirus could continue to infect people into the fall. That has prompted calls for a national shift to vote-by-mail to avoid a scene like that one in Wisconsin earlier this month where primary voters wearing masks and gloves were forced to line up outside voting locations. 
  The $2.2 trillion CARES Act that was signed into law late last month included $400 million to help states prepare for the 2020 election amid the coronavirus pandemic. 
  Outbreak and Election 2020: Amid vote-by-mail push, civil rights groups say in-person voting still needed 
  "State and local jurisdictions across the country are facing unexpected and rapidly increasing costs to mail ballots, move polling sites, and ensure the safety of voters, staff, and election workers," said Ben Hovland, chairman of the Election Assistance Commission, in  a statement . "I am thankful that Congress recognized the need to help support state and local election officials by offsetting some of the increased costs of administering elections during this challenging time." 
  But Democrats, who had sought $4 billion in election assistance, have said more needs to be done to help the states prepare. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., has said she would like to see at least $2 billion in additional election assistance in a fourth economic stimulus package.
  "Why should we be saying to people, 'Stand in line for hours,' when we don’t even want you leaving the house?" Pelosi asked. 
  Republican lawmakers have resisted the idea of a shift to vote-by-mail citing concerns about fraud and a belief that it would benefit Democrats electorally. 
  House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy objected to Pelosi' push, characterizing it as an attempt to use the pandemic for political advantage. 
  "You want to hold a bill up because you want to change election law in November, that somehow you think that gives you benefit? That’s disgusting," he said.
  Trump derided Democrats' push to include more election assistance in the CARES ACT during a March 30 interview with "Fox & Friends." 
  "They had a level of voting that, if you ever agreed to it, you’d never have a Republican elected in this country again," Trump said. 
  Without offering evidence, President Donald Trump said at an April 7 news conference that vote-by-mail is "a very dangerous thing for this country" because people "cheat." 
  When a reporter pointed out that Trump voted by mail in Florida's primary, Trump replied, "because I'm allowed to." The president, who has long made unsupported claims of voters fraud, claimed the process for absentee ballots was different that than the mail-in ballots being proposed. 
  But election experts told  FactCheck.org  that out-of-state and in-state ballots are treated the same. 
  Experts said fraud is more prevalent in vote-by-mail than in-person voting, though the number of incidents is low. 
  Richard Hasen, a professor at the University of California at Irvine School of Law and author of "Election Meltdown: Dirty Tricks, Distrust, and the Threat to American Democracy", wrote in a  Washington Post op-ed  that ballots "cast outside the watchful eye of election officials can be stolen, altered, sold or destroyed." But he added that "problems are extremely rare in the five states that rely primarily on vote-by-mail, including the heavily Republican state of Utah.
  "Election design requires tradeoffs. Many states offer absentee balloting because they realize that the tremendous convenience to voters outweighs the small risk of fraud," Hasen said. "Now, of course, the COVID-19 pandemic has radically elevated the risk of gathering at polling stations, making mail-in balloting a crucial alternative." 
  A major hurdle for a shift to vote-by-mail for the November election is that each state writes its own election law. Given the way the debate is shaping up along partisan lines, Republican-led states appear unlikely to embrace the shift despite the pandemic. 
  Last week, Republican state senators in Lousiana, which is one of the states that has been hit hardest by the pandemic with more than 1,300 deaths, blocked an emergency measure to expand mail-in balloting for the presidential primary, currently scheduled for July. 
  Five states conduct their elections my mail: Colorado, Hawaii, Oregon, Washington and Utah. California, Nebraska and North Dakota allow counties to opt for it and 17 states allow it for local or special elections, according to the  National Conference of State Legislatures . Thirty-four states allow voters to cast absentee ballots without requiring a reason for doing so, while 16 states require an excuse. 
  Contributing: The Associated Press  
 