WASHINGTON — The  American Israel Public Affairs Committee  told conference attendees, some of whom include lawmakers, that at least two conference-goers have tested positive for coronavirus.
  The pro-Israel lobbying group said in an updated statement to attendees, speakers, administration and Capitol Hill offices on Friday that the two individuals affected traveled from New York to Washington, D.C. to attend the March 1-3 conference.
  "We have continued to remain in constant communication with the Westchester County Health Department and the DC Health Department which is coordinating with the New York Health Department, and national health authorities," the AIPAC statement reads.
  Attendees and speakers at the conference included Vice President Mike Pence, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, Rep. Liz Cheney, R-Wyo., former 2020 Democratic candidate Mike Bloomberg, former candidate Sen. Cory Booker, D-N.J., and several other lawmakers on both sides of the political aisle.
  The group's website says that more than about 18,000 people attend its conference from across the country, and that two-thirds of Congress participate.
  AIPAC had previously alerted conference participants on Wednesday that a group of conference-goers may have had contact with a coronavirus patient before traveling to D.C. for the event, and that they would be under self-quarantine.
  Asked about it at a press conference about coronavirus, Pence and Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said this was the first they had heard of the AIPAC cases, which were announced by AIPAC shortly before the press event.
  "We will be engaged I'm confident in the same contact tracing that we are for any case," Pence said.
  Fauci added that the White House coronavirus task force members would share further information as they get it.
  "If you have someone who was here, the risk of there being a major outbreak obviously, which everybody thinks about, but what will happen is that those individuals that were infected will have contact tracing and that's the 'public health weapon,' if you want to call it, that we have," Fauci said.
  The D.C. Department of Health said in a statement Friday that it is working with AIPAC to keep attendees informed, but that its investigation so far finds "there is no identified risk to conference attendees at this time."  
  "All attendees and members of the public are urged to follow the well-established prevention tips like staying home if sick and calling ahead to a health provider if experiencing symptoms," the Health Department said.
  The number of coronavirus cases in the United States grows every day. The U.S. has confirmed 260 cases of COVID-19. At least 14 people in the U.S. and more than 3,400 people globally have died from the virus.
 