ALBANY – The number of coronavirus deaths in New York on Wednesday  jumped 25% in one day  — an average of more than 16 deaths an hour — and will exceed 2,000 overall Thursday.
  All of the deaths happened in a mere 18 days, putting New York, particularly the city, at the epicenter of COVID-19 and  far ahead of any state in the nation .
  Now the question is: Should New York leaders have shut down the state sooner?
  New York officials and President Donald Trump this week clashed over the state’s emergency response in the weeks after its first confirmed coronavirus case March 1.
  Trump, a Republican, on Tuesday asserted Democratic New York officials failed to act swiftly to close schools and ban gatherings, leading to the state’s current place as the leader of the coronavirus pandemic with more than 83,000 confirmed cases and a projection of  at least 16,000 deaths  over the next several months.
  “For whatever reason, New York got off to a very late start and you see what happens when you get off to a late start," Trump said during a White House press briefing. 
  Trump also contrasted New York’s response with other states such as California and Washington, which imposed shutdowns sooner and have now reported far fewer confirmed cases, at about 8,500 and 5,300 cases, respectively.
  Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s spokeswoman responded by blasting the Trump administration’s handling of the crisis, and Cuomo said New York has acted promptly as the cases and deaths grew.
  "This is not the time to debate but the states were not slow to respond — the federal government was absent," Dani Lever, Cuomo's communications director, said in a statement.
  More: Coronavirus in New York: Check our interactive map of cases and deaths by county 
  Central to the issue are early missteps in testing for coronavirus across the country, a public health expert said.
  New York City health officials in early February, for instance, were asking the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for access to coronavirus testing in  what proved to be a fruitless effort to contain the spread of COVID-19 , the disease caused by the virus.
  Further, the federal agency initially distributed flawed coronavirus tests to states, including New York, which eventually created its own test to ramp up its testing effort in March.
  More: COVID-19: How New York City became epicenter of coronavirus pandemic, what that means 
  Now more than two dozen private labs are testing in New York, and the Westchester-based Regeneron said Wednesday it is donating 500,000 test kits
  “Good leaders make the best judgment available with the information they have, and they quickly seek more relevant information,” said Dr. Robert Amler, dean of New York Medical College’s School of Health Sciences and Practice.
  “It’s my impression that is exactly what happened (in New York),” added Amler, who coordinated the CDC's measles surveillance, investigation and control program in the 1980s.
  Amler noted experts will only be able to determine how effective social distancing measures have been in the U.S. when more robust testing is achieved.
  New York's high number of positive cases is in part to its aggressive testing.
  “It’s only at that point … that we can really look back and understand what happened and how effective our responses were at different stages of the battle,” he said.
  More: This New York boy was beating cancer. Then coronavirus hit. Now his treatment is in limbo 
  Cuomo and New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio have stressed they acted as quickly as they could to shut down schools and businesses as the coronavirus cases piled up.
  But should they have done it sooner and would it have made any difference?
  “I think in retrospect we deliberated too long on the various shutdown steps,” Mark Levine, a New York City councilman who heads its health committee,  told Politico .
  “We’re racing against the clock in slowing the spread of this, and even a day or two can change the trajectory.”
  More: Coronavirus: The rent is due the first of the month. Here's how NY is protecting tenants 
  New York had its first case March 1 and a day later determined  a New Rochelle lawyer was positive  and likely had spread it to members of his religious congregation.
  On March 3, 1,000 people in New Rochelle were put in quarantine, and a week later it was turned into a containment area that limited gatherings and shuttered schools.
  It wasn't until March, 12, when the number of cases statewide hit 325, that Cuomo announced a statewide ban on gatherings of 500 or more individuals, which shut down Broadway, and required all smaller gatherings to be cut in half.
  On March 16, two days after the first death in the state, New York  ordered all schools  closed by March 18, when the number of cases hit 2,300.
  Cuomo then, on March 20,  ordered all non-essential businesses  to close starting on March 22, when the number of cases swelled to 15,000 and deaths reached 114.
  There was hesitancy for days by de Blasio and Cuomo to close the city schools, the nation's largest school district, and others across the state.
  "We said closing schools, if you can reduce the negative, childcare, student meals, etc., then I think it's a good strategy. But, we have to address those two negatives. The worst negative is if we lose essential workers," Cuomo said March 15 a day before all schools were shuttered.
  Later that day,  he closed NYC and suburban schools .
  More: Coronavirus: Andrew Cuomo apologizes to unemployment seekers for 'deluged' system 
  De Blasio, meanwhile, has faced the brunt of criticism as Cuomo  has been lauded for his daily, detailed briefings  that mix messages of hope with the hard facts.
  The mayor has been knocked, in particular, for initially downplaying the virus after it was clear it would rapidly spread in the city due to its population density and status as an international gateway.
  He even unknowingly spread misinformation, the Washington Post noted.
  “Occasional contact, glancing contact, temporary contact does not, from everything we know about coronavirus, lead to transmission,”  he said March 3. 
  Cuomo sought to balance concerns about the virus — such as trying to build up the state's stockpile of supplies, beds and ventilators — with urging people not to panic.
  "As I said from day one, the level of anxiety is not connected to facts," he said March 23. "There is no chaos. The net effect: Many people will get the virus, but few will be truly endangered."
  More: CDC issues 'domestic travel advisory' for NY, NJ and Connecticut. Here's what it means 
  On Sunday, Cuomo claimed he acted prudently, saying his team tried to weigh the impact of shutting down the state and the economic impact of doing so with the rising threat to public health.
  "We were one of the first to shut it down. Shutting it down is not without criticism, right? You’re trying to balance this," he told reporters in Albany.
  "Shutting it down is a very drastic measure, but I think we were one of the first. Also, you want to do it in a way that doesn’t create more fear and more panic."
  He and de Blasio spent days debating publicly whether to have a "shelter in place" order, with Cuomo on March 20 ultimately calling it  "NYS on Pause"  — which has shut down all non-essential businesses at least until mid-April.
  "I never used the term shelter in place because I believed that was an inflammatory term and incorrect, by the way," Cuomo said Sunday, saying "shelter in place" suggests a bomb scare or terrorist threats. 
  More: New York's stay at home plan is in effect. Here’s what you need to know 
  Other states took other early steps.
  On March 16, a "shelter-in-place" order was mandated in the San Francisco area, another densely populated city, even though there was about 500 cases statewide.
  Three days later, Gov. Gavin Newsom made the order statewide when the state's positive cases hit 900.
  Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine shuttered schools for three weeks starting March 16, and eight states have already closed schools for the remainder of the school year, including neighboring Vermont,  according to tracking by Education Week. 
  New York has been closing them at two weeks intervals, with the latest order extending the closure through April 15.
  More: Coronavirus deaths in New York projected at 16,000 or more; NYC patients moved upstate 
  Still, experts said the blame for any slow response should lie with the federal government — which New York leaders have regularly condemned, particularly as cases spread in mid-March.
  Dr. Irwin Redlener, director of the National Center for Disaster Preparedness at Columbia University, said Trump’s comment on a late start in New York was ironic “given how late and delayed the federal response has been since the beginning, starting with the extraordinary ineptness” in organizing mass testing.
  More: Behind restaurants, a $300 billion food-distribution network is on the brink due to coronavirus 
  Researchers are reporting vast differences in COVID-19 testing efforts across the country, despite limited details coming from the federal government.
  There is no “official” U.S. government count of testing. Trump administration officials have said that’s partly because they didn’t want to slow down availability of the test by imposing uniform reporting requirements.
  But  the COVID Tracking Project website is collecting data  from state and local governments and appears to be one of the more reliable sources in the nation on testing data.
  It reported more than 1 million tests conducted across the country as of Wednesday morning, including 205,000 in New York.
  In contrast, California had about 88,000 tests and Washington had 65,000 tests, the website shows.
  Cuomo has pointed to New York’s head start on testing as one reason it has more confirmed cases so far but warned other communities will face similar outbreaks soon.
  “Anyone who says the situation is a New York City only situation is in a state of denial,” he said Monday, calling New York a canary in the coal mine.
  “What you see us going through here, you will see happening all across this country."
  Yet other factors driving the nation’s largest COVID-19 outbreak  include New York City’s densely packed population of 8.6 million , twice as large as the next biggest city, Los Angeles, at 4 million.
  “In those parts of the country where you had large congregations of people such as in New York City subways and Mardi Gras (in New Orleans)…it appears that those are the typical places where you’ve had large numbers of cases being reported,” Amler said.
  More: Andrew Cuomo's order to hospitals: Expand capacity or face state takeover 
  More: This New York boy was beating cancer. Then coronavirus hit. Now his treatment is in limbo 
  Joseph Spector is the New York state editor for the USA TODAY Network. He can be reached at JSPECTOR@Gannett.com or followed on Twitter: @GannettAlbany 
 