WASHINGTON – Promoting his campaign to reopen the economy – and facing health warnings in the process – President Donald Trump plans a visit Thursday to a medical supply business in  the politically pivotal state of Pennsylvania .
  "Looking forward to being in Allentown, Pennsylvania, on Thursday. I love the State, and for very good reason!" Trump tweeted Tuesday.
  Trump plans to use the trip to spotlight his argument that the economy can be reopened safely and life can soon return to normal, even as  lawmakers and his own health advisers  warn that moving too quickly could trigger a deadly new wave of the coronavirus.
  The White House is instituting new safety procedures after two employees tested positive for the virus. And  Dr. Anthony Fauci , a key member of the White House coronavirus task force, warned during a Senate hearing Tuesday that there could be “some suffering and death” if states bypass guidelines for careful reopening.
  Trump continues to promote the idea of  reopening the economy quickly,  and he has encouraged protesters who have demonstrated against lockdowns in their states – including Pennsylvania, a state that is probably essential to his reelection bid.
  ​As officials put together the Pennsylvania visit, Trump criticized the state's Democratic governor, Tom Wolf, for not seeking to reopen the state's economy fast enough.
  In a tweet Monday, Trump said "the great people of Pennsylvania want their freedom now, and they are fully aware of what that entails. The Democrats are moving slowly, all over the USA, for political purposes."
  At a news conference, Trump praised  supporters in Pennsylvania who have demonstrated against Wolf .
  "The people want to go back," Trump said.
  Wolf, like other governors, said reopening his state too quickly will trigger a surge in coronavirus cases and cost lives.
  In apparent response to critics like Trump, Wolf tweeted Monday that "the politicians who are encouraging us to quit the fight are acting in a most cowardly way."
  Trump is pushing for reopening the economy amid criticism that he cannot keep the White House itself safe. Last week,  two White House employees tested positive  for the coronavirus, a Navy steward and the press secretary to Vice President Mike Pence, both of whom came near Trump in recent days.
  The White House has since adopted new safety procedures, including a requirement that all West Wing staff members wear masks (though Trump himself is exempted from the mandate).
  Trump downplayed the threat to the White House, telling reporters on Monday that he "felt no vulnerability whatsoever."
  'I felt no vulnerablity whatsoever':  Trump downplays new White House virus cases as he pushes reopening 
  New precautions: White House adopts new safety measures as coronavirus moves closer to Trump's inner circle 
  A week after visiting  a mask-making plant in Phoenix,  the president will tour the Owens and Minor Inc. medical equipment factory in Allentown, the White House said in a statement. He will deliver remarks on  replenishing the nation's stockpile  of medical personal protective equipment like masks, gloves, and surgical gowns, all of which are distributed by the Allentown company.
  Trump and some of his aides were  criticized for not wearing masks  during his tour of a mask-making facility in Phoenix. Arizona is another state that figures to be closely contested in the fall election contest with presumptive Democratic nominee Joe Biden.
  Trump had hoped to visit Pennsylvania late last month, but the trip was scuttled over safety concerns.
  Officials explored the idea of a Trump visit in late April to a Braskem America manufacturing plant in Marcus Hook, Pa. Earlier this year, dozens of workers stayed in the plant for 28 straight days so they could remain virus-free while producing raw materials needed to make masks, gowns, and sanitary wipes.
  The Trump trip was never scheduled because the company expressed safety concerns, said an administration official speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss security concerns.
  The new White House health protocols will be in effect when Trump visits the distribution center in Allentown, the official said.
  Members of the presidential party are expected to wear masks or facial coverings, as prescribed in the new White House rules, though Trump himself probably won't wear one, the official said. The president and his staff are also expected to engage in social distancing during the visit.
  The Allentown trip also comes less than six months before the presidential election in which Pennsylvania figures to play a key role.
  Four years ago, Trump became the first Republican presidential candidate since 1988 to carry Pennsylvania. That win helped boost him to an Electoral College win over Hillary Clinton, and campaign aides regard Pennsylvania as an essential part of his strategy in 2020.
 