WASHINGTON – Dr. Anthony Fauci said Tuesday the U.S. is probably not ready to reopen the economy on a proposed timeline outlined by President Donald Trump.
  Trump and his aides have suggested May 1 as a possible deadline for at least beginning the process of restarting large segments of the economy.  Fauci told the Associated Press  that the May 1 date is “a bit overly optimistic” for certain areas of the country. 
  “We have to have something in place that is efficient and that we can rely on, and we’re not there yet,”  Fauci told the Associated Press  in describing efforts to contain the spread of coronavirus.
  Fauci's latest comments came a day after he expressed regret for a "poor choice of words" in suggesting that the Trump administration could have saved lives if it had acted earlier to encourage social distancing, the closing of businesses, and bans on large gatherings of people.
  In an unusual move,  Trump brought Fauci to the podium  earlier than normal at a White House briefing on Monday so that the epidemic expert could explain his comments during a weekend interview on CNN.
  "There were interpretations of that response to a hypothetical question that I just thought it would be very nice for me to clarify," said Fauci, the long-time director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.
  In an interview Sunday on CNN's "State of the Union," Fauci was asked if lives could have been saved had measures been imposed during the third week of February instead of mid-March. Fauci said, "It's very difficult to go back and say that. I mean, obviously, you could logically say that if you had a process that was ongoing and you started mitigation earlier, you could have saved lives. Obviously, no one is going to deny that."
  Fauci said, "What goes into those kinds of decisions is – is complicated. But you're right. I mean, obviously, if we had, right from the very beginning, shut everything down, it may have been a little bit different. But there was a lot of pushback about shutting things down back then."
  Fauci said he should have not have answered a “hypothetical” question about what might have happened. He also said he was trying to explain that a number of complex factors went into the recommendation to shut down large parts of the economy.
  More: Anthony Fauci says he used a 'poor choice of words' in discussing Trump administration's coronavirus response 
  More: 'He's answered that question.' Trump interrupts when reporter asks Fauci about hydroxychloroquine 
  Trump, who on Sunday retweeted a supporter's post calling for Fauci's firing, said that ousting Fauci was never a consideration and that he admired the doctor's work.
  "Today, I walk in I hear I'm going to fire him," Trump told reporters. "I'm not firing – I think he's a wonderful guy."
  Fauci also griped about the length of the White House daily coronavirus briefings, saying they take time from his other duties, according to AP. The Monday session lasted nearly two-and-a-half hours.
  “If I had been able to just make a few comments and then go to work, that would have really been much better,” Fauci told AP. “It isn’t the idea of being there and answering questions, which I really think is important for the American public. It’s the amount of time.”
  Trump and Fauci have disagreed on a number of items throughout the course of the coronavirus epidemic.
  They include the amount of time needed to develop a coronavirus vaccine and  the usefulness of hydroxychloroquine , an anti-malaria drug that Trump championed as a treatment of coronavirus but that Fauci questioned.
  At Monday's briefing, after a reporter asked whether the country should be reopened on May 1, Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin said, "I have had discussions with the president. I know he is considering it and I believe he is going to make a decision later in the week."
  Trump interjected to say: "Everything has to be safe. We want safe."
 