George Takei and other stars are calling out President Donald Trump for his use of the term "Chinese virus" to refer to the coronavirus.
  Trump has doubled down on labeling the coronavirus pandemic as the "Chinese virus" as  he tries to distance himself from criticism  over how his administration is handling the response to the global pandemic that has shuttered public life, roiled stock markets and left  nearly 600 people dead  in the U.S.
  During a press briefing Wednesday,  Trump defended  the use of the term despite mounting criticism among Asian-American advocates, health experts and Democratic lawmakers who warn referring to the virus by a location-specific name stigmatizes certain ethnic groups. "I have to call it where it came from," he said, referring to the coronavirus, which was first detected  in Wuhan, China in December 2019 . 
  During an appearance on  MSNBC  Saturday, the former "Star Trek" star, 82, criticized the president's preferred term. 
  "We are chilled by the constant use by the president and his administration of that term," Takei said. "We have a long history of anti-Asian hatred in this country."
  Takei referenced an incident in New York where  an Asian woman was discriminated against  amid the coronavirus outbreak.
  "His doing that sends a cold chill throughout the Asian American community, because he's sending a signal to the haters and his constituencies, and there are plenty of them there," he said.
  Takei has also been vocal on social media about Trump's language.
  In one tweet , he called the president "unfit and unhinged."
  He also called Trump "delusional" on Monday.
  "Italy went into lockdown as a country 2 weeks ago. Still, nearly 800 Italians died yesterday, and new cases are rising quickly," he tweeted. "Anyone who thinks that in 2 weeks this is going to resolve itself in America is delusional. Yes, including you, Donald."
  On March 15, Takei sent a  jabbed Trump  while sharing a tweet about an open letter published on USA TODAY from health care leaders. 
  "We may not have a president, but we still have great leaders. Listen to them when they say #StayHome," he wrote.
  Awkwafina, 31, took to  Instagram  Tuesday to share her thoughts on the coronavirus, which included touching on the rhetoric surrounding the pandemic. 
  "Haven’t said much about this whole thing because mostly I am just saddened by it,"  she captioned a photo of herself wearing a mask . "I am saddened by the rhetoric that has come out of this, and the cruelty that came as a result. I hope that while we self isolate and socially distance to stay safe, we also stay sane and calm."
  Last week, "To All the Boys I've Loved Before" star Lana Condor also shared a message about hurtful names associated with the virus.
  "Okay, so. Despite the origin of the virus, whats more important is the fact that REAL HUMAN BEINGS, are being attacked bc of your choice of words," she tweeted. "So my question: what’s more important 2 U? Renaming a virus that already has a name COVID19- OR protecting the lives of others?"
  Days prior, she shared a lengthy statement, seemingly blasting Trump for his labeling of the virus.
  "You have no idea the ramifications your racist words & actions have on the Asian American community. You simply cannot even fathom the danger you are putting our community in. How dare you," she said. "You should be ashamed of yourself. You call yourself a leader? You know what leaders do? They LEAD by setting good examples and ACTION. Something we've yet to see you do."
  These celebrities aren't alone in calling the president out for his handling of the pandemic.
  Other stars including Bette Midler have directed their frustrations toward Trump.
  "So...what possessed Trump to dismantle the US Pandemic Response team put in place by #Obama, for just such an event as the one we are living through now? #JEALOUSY!"  she tweeted  on March 12. "This schmuck is so self centered, selfish, and COLOSSALLY STUPID."
  Contributing: Courtney Subramanian, Nicholas Wu and David Jackson 
  More: Tom Hanks, Rita Wilson ‘feel better,’ offer hope in update about coronavirus 
  More: Idris Elba praises Tom Hanks for 'immediately' sharing coronavirus diagnosis in Oprah COVID-19 interview 
 