WASHINGTON – President Donald Trump has delayed the release of an economic stimulus package for businesses and workers harmed by the  coronavirus  outbreak as his aides sort out what financial relief will be included in the proposal.
  Trump had said he would have a news conference on Tuesday to release  details of the package . But the day ended with no announcement and no agreement, even after meetings between Trump and lawmakers on Capitol Hill.
  "We are working on details right now,” Trump's senior economic adviser Larry Kudlow said. “We’re checking with the leaders of both parties of both houses to see what is doable.”
  Kudlow said Trump is pushing for a payroll tax cut holiday through the end of the year. The administration also is looking at providing assistance to small and medium businesses and Americans with unpaid sick leave, he said.
  What's new: Coronavirus updates: Global death toll passes 4,000; Boston, Dublin cancel St. Patrick's Day parades 
  A change in tone: From 'great' to 'blindsided': How Trump changed his coronavirus message amid fear, confusion in the White House 
  Trump said Monday he will seek  “very dramatic”  financial relief for workers and businesses hurt by coronavirus. He suggested the economic stimulus package could include a possible payroll tax cut, relief for hourly wage earners so that they don’t miss a paycheck and economic relief for industries such a airlines and cruise ships.
  Earlier Tuesday, Trump traveled to Capitol Hill for a meeting with Senate Republicans, where he discussed a range of options on how to cope with the financial problems caused by the coronavirus scare.
  Trump may face a showdown over his proposal with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who may have a different plan in mind for economic measures that focus on paid sick family leave instead of airline industry relief. Trump needs Democratic support in order to push through the White House stimulus plan for Congress. 
  Ahead of his meeting with Senate Republicans, the president took a swipe at Pelosi on Twitter. 
  "Nancy Pelosi just said, 'I don’t know if we can be ready this week.' In other words, it’s off to vacation for the Do Nothing Democrats," he tweeted. "That’s been the story with them for 1 1/2 years!"
  The discussions about an economic stimulus came as financial markets continued to show volatility. U.S. stocks bounced back Tuesday in a wild trading session marked by huge swings. The  Dow Jones industrial average  jumped 1,167 points, or 4.9%, recovering half of its losses from the day before when it plunged more than 2,000 points, its worst decline since 2008.
  Meanwhile, the U.S. death toll from coronavirus has risen to 28, as infections spread to all but a handful of states. The global death toll topped 4,000 and the number of confirmed cases approached 117,000.
  Trump already has signed an $8.3 billion package of emergency funding to help treat and slow the spread of the virus. The package includes funding for research and development of vaccines as well as money for prevention, preparedness and response.
  An economic stimulus for workers and businesses would be on top of the $8.3 billion already approved.
  Contributing: Courtney Subramanian, Jessica Menton 
 