WASHINGTON – President Donald Trump and other world leaders said Thursday they are trying to fight the coronavirus by injecting  more than $5 trillion into the global economy , sharing more health data, and addressing potential trade disruptions.
  "Combating this pandemic calls for a transparent, robust, coordinated, large-scale and science-based global response in the spirit of solidarity," said  a statement from the leaders of the Group of 20 nations  – the G-20 – following a videoconference.
  President Donald Trump called it "a terrific meeting," and told reporters at a news conference that he would "share information and data" with G-20 partners partners to defeat the virus.
  The G-20 statement did not detail exactly where the $5 trillion is coming from, but appeared to refer to stimulus plans from various governments. That includes  the $2 trillion-plus proposal  now pending in the U.S. Congress, and which Trump has pledged to sign.
  More: US reaches 1,000 deaths in coronavirus crisis 
  More: Americans divided on Trump coronavirus response as president's approval rating climbs, polls find 
  In pledging global cooperation, the statement from G-20 members cited three major areas:
  The United Nations and other leaders have asked G-20 countries to do more to help the global economy, including suspension of tariffs and other trade sanctions supported by leaders like Trump.
  Asked at a Wednesday news conference about the prospect of lifting tariffs, Trump did not respond. He spoke instead about "strong borders" and stopping illegal immigration.
  During the G-20 videoconference, World Health Organization Director General Tedros Ghebreyesus addressed the group about the need to finance and produce more personal protection equipment like masks and gloves for besieged medical workers across the globe.
  The current G-20 chairman, King Salman of Saudi Arabia, said he called the "virtual summit" to work on a "global response" to the coronavirus pandemic.
  "As the world confronts the COVID-19 pandemic and the challenges to healthcare systems and the global economy, we convene this extraordinary G20 summit to unite efforts towards a global response," he tweeted before the meeting. "May God spare humanity from all harm."
  The conference came a day after another international economic group – the Group of Seven industrialized nations, or G-7 – failed to agree on a joint statement about coronavirus.
  The reason: U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo insisted on referring to the epidemic as the "Wuhan virus," saying China has a special responsibility to address the impact of the disease because it started in that country. Other G-7 members called the designation needlessly provocative.
 