WASHINGTON – President Donald Trump announced a new $19 billion relief package on Friday to assist American farmers who have been financially hurt by the coronavirus outbreak. 
  The aid package includes a mass government purchase of $3 billion in dairy, produce and meat products and $16 billion in direct payments to farmers and ranchers to bolster their income, according to Department of Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue. 
  "This will help our farmers and our ranchers and it's money well deserved," Trump told reporters at a press conference at the White House Friday. 
  Perdue said while the aid program is not enough to address farmers' losses, the Agriculture Department will receive an additional $14 billion boost to help them recoup economic losses in July. 
  A decline in consumer spending and the shuttering of restaurants under social-distancing restrictions has upended the U.S food supply chain, while the pandemic has hampered exports of American agricultural products. 
  U.S. farmers, who've already been hurt by U.S. trade disputes, are  projected to lose $20 billion  in net income in 2020,  according to an updated economics report  published this month by the Food and Agricultural Policy Research Institute at the University of Missouri.
  The report indicates that in the short-term, the global pandemic will have a broad effect on all areas of U.S. agriculture, including crop and livestock prices and on fuel and ethanol demands.
  The aid plan appears to mirror the $28 billion in bailout money already sent to farmers over the last two years to offset U.S. tariffs on imports. 
  The CARES Act, the coronavirus relief package passed by Congress last month, allocated about $48.4 billion for the USDA to address issues arising from the pandemic.
  Zippy Duvall, the president of the American Farm Bureau, was quick to thank Trump and Perdue. 
  "This aid will help keep food on Americans' tables by providing a lifeline to farm families already hit by trade wars and severe weather,"  he tweeted.  
  Kansas Republican Sen. Jerry Moran  pointed out on Twitter  the U.S. coronavirus outbreak has caused more than $13 billion in economic damage to cattle producers alone. 
  "Given the level of hardship facing farmers & ranchers, more assistance will be required," he tweeted. "I will work to address the struggling [agriculture] economy and rural communities, including the need to keep food supply chains intact, meat processing plants open & ethanol facilities viable."
 