WASHINGTON – Anthony Fauci, the health care policy expert under fire from allies of  President Donald Trump, said Monday he used a "poor choice of words" when he suggested lives could have been saved had the Trump administration put in place coronavirus restrictions earlier in the year.
  "Hypothetical questions sometimes can get you into some difficulty," Fauci said during a unique statement delivered amid reports that Trump was thinking of firing him.
  In an interview Sunday on CNN's "State of the Union," Fauci was asked if lives could have been saved had social distancing been imposed during the third week of February instead of mid-March. Fauci said, "It's very difficult to go back and say that. I mean, obviously, you could logically say that if you had a process that was ongoing and you started mitigation earlier, you could have saved lives. Obviously, no one is going to deny that."
  Fauci said, "What goes into those kinds of decisions is – is complicated. But you're right. I mean, obviously, if we had, right from the very beginning, shut everything down, it may have been a little bit different. But there was a lot of pushback about shutting things down back then."
  Trump, who on Sunday re-tweeted a supporters' statement that Fauci should be fired, called the epidemic expert to the podium early in the briefing, an unusual move.
  Fauci, the long-time director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, denied that Trump forced him to make the statement. He told reporters, "everything I do is voluntary. Please. Don’t even imply that.”
  Fauci's latest comments came right before Trump again said he would not fire his nationally recognized health care policy adviser.
  Trump followed up Fauci's statement with a lengthy one of his own defending his actions as the virus spread across the country.
  The speech included a White House-produced, campaign-style video that showed governors and other officials praising Trump for restrictions that slowed the economy in order to contain the coronavirus.
  In a story on April 11,  the New York Times  suggested that Trump missed several opportunities to get contain the coronavirus in the United States. The story said that during January, February and early March, senior advisers "identified the threat, sounded alarms and made clear the need for aggressive action" on coronavirus but the president did not heed the advice until mid-March when he issued the administration's social distancing guidelines. Trump has lashed out at the story, calling it "fake."
  "Everything we did was right," Trump said at one point Monday, protesting what he claimed were inaccurate news reports on the response.
  Trump also made inaccurate claims, saying during the briefing that "nobody" had asked for ventilators, even though numerous governors have repeatedly made such requests in recent weeks.
  Later, when challenged on his assertion that he did everything right, Trump appeared to blame states for ventilator shortages: "Well, look, governors should have had ventilators."
  Critics called the performance little more than  an exercise in  " propaganda ."
  "How does Fauci feel right now?"  tweeted  political analyst Stuart Rothenberg. "Manipulated? Used?"
  At another point in the briefing, Trump claimed he has more power than governors when  it comes to restricting the economy and opening it back up  – a view at odds with most legal analysts who say that authority rests with governors.
  "When somebody is the president of the United States, the authority is total – and that's the way it's got to be," Trump said.
  More: Who decides when and how America reopens from its coronavirus shutdown? 
  On Sunday, Trump had generated new questions about the fate of his anti-coronavirus policy team by retweeting a post that called for  firing Fauci .
  Trump did not explicitly endorse  the call to remove Fauci  in his tweet Sunday, but in recirculating it, he defended himself against claims he did not act quickly enough to curb the spread of the virus that has killed almost 23,000 Americans and led to a near-shutdown of the American economy.
  DeAnna Lorraine, a pro-Trump congressional candidate who polled less than 2% in an open primary challenge to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., claimed in a tweet, "Fauci is now saying that had Trump listened to the medical experts earlier he could've saved more lives. Fauci was telling people on February 29th that there was nothing to worry about and it posed no threat to the US public at large."
  She added, "Time to #FireFauci..."
  White House spokesman Hogan Gidley derided the speculation over Trump's retweet as "media chatter" and said it was "ridiculous." He said, "President Trump is not firing Dr. Fauci" but defending himself against what he considers unfair attacks on his coronavirus response.
  "Dr. Fauci has been and remains a trusted adviser to President Trump," Gidley said.
  'I can't jump in front of the microphone and push him down':  Fauci addresses Trump coronavirus claims 
  Toll: Fauci predicts up to 200,000 U.S. deaths as Trump weighs adjusting coronavirus guidelines 
  In retweeting the criticism of those comments, Trump did not cite Fauci at all. He focused on his decision to shut down flights in early February from China, where the coronavirus originated.
  "Sorry Fake News, it’s all on tape. I banned China long before people spoke up," the president wrote.
  Gidley said Trump's retweet "clearly exposed media attempts to maliciously push a falsehood about his China decision in an attempt to rewrite history. It was Democrats and the media who ignored coronavirus, choosing to focus on impeachment instead."
  Trump and Fauci, the longtime director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, have disputed each other's statements during the course of the epidemic.
  Their disagreements included the amount of time needed to develop a coronavirus vaccine and  the usefulness of hydroxychloroquine , an anti-malaria drug that Trump championed as a treatment of coronavirus but that Fauci questioned.
  During  a White House briefing , Trump prevented Fauci from answering a reporter's question on the effectiveness of hydroxychloroquine.
  “He’s answered that question 15 times,” Trump said.
  Critics of the president said Fauci has been indispensable and expressed concern for his future with the administration. Harvard law professor Laurence Tribe likened Fauci to former special counsel Robert Mueller, who investigated Russian interference in elections.
  "Are you old enough to remember when even GOP Senators said that firing Mueller would end Trump’s presidency?" Tribe tweeted. "Well, firing Fauci would be way deadlier. Only this time we can’t even threaten mass street protests!"
 