Talks are underway with U.S. airlines, promised a  $50-billion chunk of the federal stimulus package , on how to deliver aid to them as they endure a dearth of passengers in the wake of the  coronavirus  pandemic, President Donald Trump said Thursday.
  Trump led his daily White House briefing by saying that negotiations will be going on this weekend to decide how funds would be delivered to beleaguered airlines. He said the carriers would would be consulted as part of the process.
  "It is moving along quickly. The airline business has been hit very hard, as everyone knows." Trump said. "We will be position to do a lot to help them."
  Trump didn't go into details, pledging only that "it is going to be a very acceptable package. Good for the country. Good for airlines. Good for a lot of people."
  Navigating the airline refund process:  I got my basic economy fare back. Here's how to get a refund if you're eligible 
   Airlines were among the top recipients of federal aid  in the $2-trillion stimulus package that Trump signed last month.
  Half of the $50 billion earmarked for airlines is intended as direct, immediate aid to them, with much of it required to be used to pay employees, many of whom have been furloughed due to the drop in passenger traffic.   
  Airlines have been asking for the amount they say they need out of the package. American Airlines, for instance,  said it is eligible to receive $12 billion. 
  Travel bailouts:   Airlines, hotels and travel agents all got them. Shouldn't the public? 
  "Essentially, the U.S. government is providing funds to motivate airlines to continue air service and not involuntarily furlough any team members,'' American Airlines CEO Doug Parker told employees in a video. "There are no similar provisions in the bill for other large industries.''
  While the major airline trade association, Airlines for America, has lauded the aid along with carriers like Southwest and Delta, some smaller and ultra-low fare airlines take issue with details in the stimulus. In particular, they  said in filings  that requiring carriers to maintain minimal levels of service when there are few passengers works against how they see the intent of the package: to help them stay afloat financially until passengers return to the skies.
  How stimulus bill works:   US airlines must keep flying if they accept coronavirus relief 
  Flying empty planes:    Some airlines balk at proposed rules under federal stimulus package 
  How empty are airports? The Transportation Security Administration said they screened fewer than 100,000 passengers Tuesday.  That number was a record low , and less than half the amount of travelers just two weeks ago. 
  Air careers have been reporting that their planes have been flying from 10% to 20% full on average, Airlines for America said March 26.
  Airline workers sickened: 100 American Airlines flight attendants, 41 pilots test positive for coronavirus 
 