It may seem like the entire United States is shutting down and staying indoors due to the  coronavirus pandemic . But some parts of the country are still holding off.
  As of April 6, 43 states and Washington, D.C. have issued stay-at-home or shelter-in-place directives for all residents to help contain the spread of the deadly virus. About 300 million Americans — more than 90% of the population — are under orders to stay indoors.
  That leaves seven states that have not declared  statewide orders , even after the U.S. has reported more than 347,000  confirmed cases  across all 50 states, and more than 10,000 deaths.
  Even in states without official  stay-at-home orders , most governors have closed non-essential businesses and imposed some restrictions, such as banning large gatherings. In some cases, cities or counties have taken the initiative to go beyond statewide measures.
  Those with stay-at-home orders allow several exemptions, including grocery shopping, outdoor exercise and jobs that are considered essential. Several governors who have resisted statewide orders pointed this out, saying it wasn't necessary to issue a rule that sounds more dramatic than it is. 
  Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, has  pushed for all 50 states  to have stay-at-home orders. "If you look at what's going on in this country, I just don't understand why we're not doing that," he told  CNN . But Fauci said Monday he had spoken to the governors of two states without such orders, Iowa and Nebraska, and concluded that the rules they've issued are "functionally the same" as a stay-at-home mandate.
  President Trump has made clear  that he doesn't plan to intervene, saying he wants to let governors make decisions for their own states. "We have a thing called the Constitution, which I cherish," he said in a White House briefing on Saturday. 
  These are the states that still have no stay-at-home policy. All coronavirus statistics are current through the afternoon of April 6. This article will be updated as states announce new policies.
  Governor Asa Hutchinson, a Republican, said that targeted responses to certain communities are better than a statewide order. He questioned the effectiveness of stay-at-home orders in other states, calling them "an illusion" because residents still leave home for shopping, and many even continue to go to work.
  "The question is, 'Are you accomplishing anything by doing that order?'"  Hutchinson said  April 2.
  Hutchinson  also defended  his decision by pointing out that Arkansas has fewer cases than many states that issued such orders. 
  Benton — a suburb of the state's capital and largest city, Little Rock — and surrounding Saline County issued  a stay-at-home order for minors.  Little Rock has a  night curfew  for all residents, and a youth curfew during the day.
  Arkansas has  reported  854 cases and 16 deaths.
  Documents released April 1 by the office of Governor Kim Reynolds, a Republican, show that the state is using a  12-point scale  to decide whether to issue a stay-at-home order. The scale considers factors such as the ages of people with infections, the number of hospitalizations and the rate of long-term care outbreaks.
  According to the documents, the governor would issue a statewide order if 10 points are scored on the scale — which has yet to happen. In the meantime, the governor has temporarily closed many businesses, and banned gatherings of more than 10 people. Health care professionals in Iowa  have been calling for her  to issue a statewide order.
  Iowa has  reported  946 cases and 25 deaths. 
  Governor Pete Ricketts, a Republican,  said  that the right approach for his state is responding county-by-county when there are signs of community spread. He noted, though, that other governors had been urging him to issue a statewide order. 
  So far, 56 of the state's 93 counties — covering more than 80% of its population — have enacted health measures in response to coronavirus cases.
  Nebraska has  reported  409 cases and 8 deaths.
  Governor Doug Burgum, a Republican, has not issued statewide orders to stay at home, though he did temporarily close bars, restaurants, theaters, schools, and other venues and businesses.
  "It's not about staying home, it's about avoiding contact,"  the governor said  March 25, while adding that he was open to different guidance if the situation changes. He said North Dakota was "blessed" compared to other states because of its relatively low number of cases.
  Even so, Burgum later  expressed frustration  that some people in the state were not taking social distancing seriously. 
  North Dakota has  reported  225 cases and three deaths. 
  Governor Kristi Noem, a Republican, said statewide orders would limit the rights of individuals in her state.
  "South Dakota is not New York City,"  she said  in a press conference April 1, later urging residents "not to turn on the news and look at NYC and think that that's what Lemmon, South Dakota is going to face in a month."
  "The calls to apply for a one-size-fits-all approach to this problem is herd mentality. It's not leadership."
  She also suggested that following social distancing orders should be voluntary.
  "The people themselves are primarily responsible for their safety," she said. "They are the ones that are entrusted with expansive freedoms. They're free to exercise their rights to work, to worship, and to play. Or to even stay at home, or to conduct social distancing."
  Noem stood by her stance even after acknowledging that  up to 70%  of her state's population could contract the virus — and that a stay-at-home order could slow the spread. 
  South Dakota has  reported  288 cases and four deaths.
  Governor Gary Herbert, a Republican, issued a voluntary initiative to stay home, but not an official statewide order. "We think we have enough fear about this without adding to it,"  he said , suggesting a voluntary directive was a "more positive route."
  Several counties — including Salt Lake County, the state's most populous — have issued their own stay-at-home orders. Salt Lake County Mayor Jenny Wilson called for Utah's leaders to declare a statewide rule.
  Utah has  reported  1,605 cases and eight deaths.
  Governor Mark Gordon, a Republican,  said  March 30 he has no plans for a statewide order — though if one came, it would be "a true stay-at-home order" without multiple exemptions. Some counties and towns put out their own orders, including the popular skiing destination,  Jackson. 
 