Ben Kesslen 
  The U.S. now has more than 3,000 reported cases of coronavirus, according to NBC News tallies.
  As of Sunday afternoon, there have been at least 61 deaths in the U.S. due to coronavirus and 3204 reported cases. 
  The numbers in the U.S. are rising as people around the country are increasingly practicing social distancing in an effort to stop the virus' spread. Currently Washington state and New York have the highest concentration of cases, each with more than 600.
  Text message rumors of a national  #quarantine  are FAKE. There is no national lockdown.  @CDCgov  has and will continue to post the latest guidance on  #COVID19 .  #coronavirus 
  Read  @PeaceCorpsDir  Jody Olsen's statement regarding COVID-19 and steps we’re taking to ensure the safety and security of all Peace Corps Volunteers overseas. https://t.co/OoYOggThbc 
  I’m taking executive action to help prevent the spread of COVID-19 in  @LACity  by closing bars, nightclubs, restaurants (except takeout/delivery), entertainment venues and gyms until March 31 unless extended. Grocery stores will remain open. Watch live:  https://t.co/iDFp1C4Zpz   pic.twitter.com/IlTcanN2tA 
  Tim Stelloh
  Washington State Gov. Jay Inslee said Sunday that he will temporarily limit restaurants to take-out and delivery services and close entertainment venues and recreational facilities across the state.
  We’re in this together, Washington. How each of us responds matters. And I know we’re up for the challenge. My full statement:  https://t.co/KO6taPv83D   6/6  pic.twitter.com/lBwjHDGc1m 
  The emergency proclamation, which aims to stem the spread of  coronavirus , will go into effect Monday, he said.
  Inslee also prohibited gatherings with more than 50 people unless they’ve met  social distancing  and public health guidelines.
  “These are very difficult decisions, but hours count here and very strong measures are necessary to slow the spread of the disease,” Inslee said. “I know there will be significant economic impacts to all our communities and we are looking at steps to help address those challenges.”
  Tim Stelloh
  New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio on Sunday ordered the temporary closing of movie theaters, nightclubs and concert venues.
  In an executive order that will go into effect on Tuesday morning, de Blasio also said restaurants, bars and cafes will be limited to takeout orders and deliveries.
  “The virus can spread rapidly through the close interactions New Yorkers have in restaurants, bars and places where we sit close together,” de Blasio said. “We have to break that cycle.” 
  Jason Abbruzzese
  United Airlines announced Sunday it will be cutting its capacity in half for April and May as Americans cut back on travel amid efforts to limit the spread of the coronavirus.
  In  a message to United employees , Oscar Munoz, chief executive officer, and J. Scott Kirby, president, said the company projects the cuts could be extended.
  "We also now expect these deep cuts to extend into the summer travel period," Munoz and Kirby wrote. "Even with those cuts, we're expecting load factors to drop into the 20-30% range -- and that's if things don't get worse."
  The company said its leaders would be taking a 50 percent pay cut. 
  "We're also currently projecting that revenue in March will be $1.5 billion lower than last March," Munoz and Kirby wrote. 
  Tim Stelloh
  The number of coronavirus-related deaths continued to rise Sunday in  Europe’s hardest hit two countries , Italy and Spain.
  Italy’s death toll rose to 1,809, a jump of 368 people in one day, Italy’s civil protection chief, Angelo Borrelli, said. The number of cases of across the country also continued to spike, with another 3,590 people testing positive for the disease.
  Nearly 25,000 Italians have contracted COVID-19.
  Spain,  which declared a state of emergency Friday , reported Sunday that the number of deaths rose to 292, up from 84 on Thursday, the country’s health minister, Salvador Illa, said. The number of cases more than doubled, from nearly 3,000 to almost 8,000.
  David K. Li
  MGM Resorts will close all of its Las Vegas properties,  the hotel chain announced on Sunday.  
  The company, which owns many major Las Vegas hotels including Aria, Bellagio, Mandalay Bay, MGM Grand, New York-New York and The Mirage, said that starting on Tuesday it will "temporarily suspend operations at its Las Vegas properties until further notice."
  Casinos on those properties will close on Monday, the company said.
  Joe Murphy
  As of March 15 there have been more than 3,000 coronavirus cases confirmed in the United States, driven by more than 200 new cases in New York. At least 800 new cases have been confirmed in the last 24 hours.
  See  a map of the cases per U.S. state here , and see  the day-by-day breakdown of new cases in the U.S. and the world here .
 