
  
  The death toll in Italy from coronavirus has risen by 793 in the past 24 hours to 4,825, according to the Italian Civil Protection Agency.
  Overall, the number of confirmed cases in Italy is 53,578, according to data from  Johns Hopkins University .
  Texas will issue temporary permits to "nurses who have yet to take the licensing exam" and suspend other regulations for students to assist with the state's response to Covid-19, Gov. Greg Abbott said in a press release Saturday.
  Abbott is allowing "nurses with inactive licenses or retired nurses to reactivate their licenses," the release said. 
  Nursing students in their final year will be allowed to "meet their clinical objectives by exceeding the 50% limit on simulated experiences," the release added. 
  
  New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy announced a statewide "stay at home" order which will go in to effect at 9 p.m. ET Saturday. 
  This order follows New York and Connecticut which made similar orders Friday.
  There are 1,327 confirmed Covid-19 cases in New jersey with 16 deaths in total, Murphy said at a press conference.
  There were 400 more COVID-19 confirmed cases since yesterday, Murphy added
  The order will prohibit all gatherings, such as celebrations, the governor said.
  Murphy’s executive order further directs the closure of all non-essential retail businesses to the public, with the exceptions of:
  
  
  Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, stressed that not all Americans should be tested for coronavirus during a White House press conference Saturday.
  Fauci noted if people get tested unnecessarily, they will utilize important personal protective equipment that could be used for those who do need to be tested or are at a greater risk. 
  Fauci noted that right now there are disparities in the amount of available personal protective equipment though, “we are working hard to correct that.” 
  Fauci also reiterated doctors should put off elective surgeries for the time being so they don’t put themselves of others at risk by utilizing medical equipment. 
  
  Vice President Mike Pence said  Saturday during a news conference  that he and his wife Karen would be tested for the coronavirus.
  Pence said that more than 195,000 Americans have been tested for the virus. Pence noted that number does not include county hospitals or health care labs around the country. 
  Currently, only 19,343 tests have come back positive, Pence said.
  Earlier Saturday:  President Trump told reporters that Congress is close to reaching a deal on a proposal for the next stimulus bill to deal with the pandemic.
  On Saturday, congressional and administration negotiators entered a crucial day in the effort to deploy more than $1 trillion in emergency stimulus to a staggering economy, with a growing consensus on a final agreement, but a handful of significant hang-ups still needed to be resolved.
  
  
  Vice President Mike Pence announced Saturday during a coronavirus task force meeting that the Department of Health and Human Services has placed a huge order for N95 masks needed to fight the coronavirus pandemic.
  Pence then addressed the need to postpone certain medical procedures across the US out of precaution.
  "On behalf of the President, we do renew the call for Americans to postpone elective medical procedures, including dental services, and this is another way to make sure that the medical supplies are available, by postponing elective medical procedures, you are freeing up medical supplies for those dealing with the coronavirus," he said.
  There are 21,240 cases of the novel coronavirus in the United States, according to CNN Health’s tally of US cases that are detected and tested in the country through its public health systems. So far, 267 people have died. 
  The total includes cases from all 50 states, Washington, DC, and other US territories, as well as all repatriated cases. 
  President Trump told reporters that “we are getting close” to reaching a deal on a proposal for the next stimulus bill to deal with the coronavirus.
  Some context:  Congressional and administration negotiators on Saturday entered a crucial day in the effort to deploy more than $1 trillion in emergency stimulus to a staggering economy, with a growing consensus on a final agreement, but a handful of significant hang-ups still to be resolved.
  Bipartisan groups of senators worked late into Friday night with top officials from President Donald Trump's administration to lock in a final agreement — an agreement that people directly involved in the negotiations tell CNN could top a cost of $1.5 trillion — before falling short of a midnight deadline imposed by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.
  Larry Kudlow, a top economic adviser to Trump, went even further on the overall scope the package Saturday, telling reporters it could top $2 trillion.
  "The package is coming in about 10% of GDP, it's a very large package," Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council, said. Ten percent of gross domestic product is roughly $2 trillion.
  
  
  The US Food and Drug Administration has announced emergency use authorization of a new on-site coronavirus test that could detect the virus in approximately 45 minutes.
  The authorization was made Friday and tests will begin shipping next week, according to a statement from the company manufacturing the tests.
  
 