Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo on Monday provided new details about the process that  New Yor k plans to follow for reopening as the  coronavirus  continues to decline in the state. 
  Mr. Cuomo listed seven requirements each of  the state’s 10 regions  must meet before restrictions meant to slow the virus’s spread could be eased in those areas. 
  Some parts of New York will probably meet the thresholds much sooner than others, the governor said. 
  Some areas, including central New York and the sparsely populated North Country section of the state, are already meeting five of the seven requirements, he said.
  New York City is meeting only three: Hospital deaths and new hospitalizations are declining steadily, and the city is conducting the appropriate number of tests each month.
  The governor also said that once reopening started, it would proceed in phases. He had previously discussed a first phase in which construction and manufacturing would restart. On Monday he added three more phases.
  The second would include professional services, retail and real estate businesses; the third would include restaurants and hotels; and the fourth would include businesses related to the arts and entertainment.
  Mr. Cuomo said 226 more people in New York State had died of the coronavirus. It was the lowest one-day figure since March 28, and 70 percent below the one-day tolls of early April, when New York was reporting nearly 800 new fatalities a day. 
  All public and private schools in New Jersey will remain closed for the rest of the academic year, Gov. Philip D. Murphy said on Twitter on Monday, a week after saying there was “a chance” that they would reopen.
  “I had hoped that we could get back to a sense of normal by allowing our children to get back to the schools they love and to be with their friends and classmates,” the governor said at his daily briefing after making the announcement. “But the reality is that we cannot safely reopen our schools.”
  Students will continue online-only instruction through the end of the school year, Mr. Murphy said.
  “Guided by safety and science, this is the best course of action,” he  said on Twitter .
  Mr. Murphy’s decision came after  New York  and  Pennsylvania  took similar steps. He had repeatedly indicated a preference for schools to reopen, a position shared by President Trump but not by most of his  fellow governors .
  “There is a chance that we could get back in school,” he said last Monday on CNBC, hours before laying out  benchmarks  the state will need to meet before businesses can reopen.
  No spring sports will be permitted to hold even partial seasons, the governor said.
  A committee will be established to make decisions about summer school and to consider ways to hold graduations and celebrate other milestones, like prom, said state’s education commissioner, Dr. Lamont Repollet, whose own daughter is a graduating senior. For example, Dr. Repollet said, graduations might be held in August.
  The announcement about schools staying closed came on a day that New Jersey announced  45 new virus-related deaths  for a total of 7,910 fatalities. Because of a weekend failure of the state’s computer system, both numbers are below the true figures, officials said.
  “We are certain that these numbers are underreported,” the health commissioner, Judith M. Persichilli said.
  Mr. Murphy also said he was rescinding an earlier order setting aside $1.3 billion in surplus funds and vetoing legislation authorizing certain spending.
  “We are on the brink of having to make very tough and, quite frankly, very unpalatable decisions,” he said.
  The governor said that the reopening of state and county parks on Saturday had gone well, with just a few problems caused by “knuckleheads,” Mr. Murphy’s preferred term for those who flout social-distancing rules. 
  The term itself, which a  Republican state senator  criticized after it appeared on electronic billboards over the weekend, is here to stay, the governor said. 
  Mr. Murphy said that he had considered using “blockhead” or “numbskull” instead but that he preferred the three-syllable “oomph” of “knucklehead.”
  One got out of Nazi Germany on a Kindertransport train to Sweden, never again seeing his parents, who were exterminated in the death camps. One survived two notorious concentration camps, Auschwitz and Bergen-Belsen, and was discovered by British troops on a pile of bodies, half-dead with typhus. One endured freezing temperatures and near starvation in a slave-labor camp in Siberia.
  David Toren, Faye Becher and Joseph Feingold survived the Holocaust, bearing witness to the seismic events of the last century. Last month, all three died by the same tiny microorganism, isolated once more from their family members. 
  Mr. Toren, who spent his late years fighting to  recover paintings  looted by the Nazis, was 94; Ms. Becher, matriarch of a close Brooklyn family, was 95; Mr. Feingold, who was the subject of the 2017 Oscar-nominated documentary short “ Joe’s Violin ,” about his gift to a young Bronx girl, was 97.
  The New York area is home to just under 40,000 Holocaust survivors, down from nearly twice that many in 2011, according to  Selfhelp Community Services , which serves Nazi victims. Now those survivors, mostly in their 80s and 90s, face a new menace that targets people like them: In New York State, the coronavirus has killed more than  twice as many people age 80  and up as it has people under 60.
  “This pandemic is the greatest threat to this generation since the Second World War,” said Stephen D. Smith, executive director of the USC Shoah Foundation, which interviews survivors of genocide. Many are only now telling their stories in full, he said.
  New York City’s public advocate, Jumaane D. Williams, said he did not know the specifics.
  But  pictures he posted on Sunday  — of swarms of mostly white New Yorkers sitting undisturbed in parks, and of apparently combative encounters between the police and brown-skinned New Yorkers — raised questions among many people about a possible double standard in the enforcement of social-distancing rules.
  The balmy weather drew millions of New Yorkers outside, prompting Mayor Bill de Blasio and Governor Cuomo to warn against flouting the restrictions, but Dermot F. Shea, the police commissioner, said that officers had written only about 70 summonses over the weekend for violations of the rules. 
  When the rules were enforced most harshly, the police appeared to be cracking down on nonwhite New Yorkers. 
  One picture posted by Mr. Williams was a still image from  video footage  filmed on Saturday that appeared to show an officer violently escalating a confrontation that the police said had started with an effort to enforce social-distancing rules.
  The police officer in the video, Francis X. Garcia, can be seen pointing a stun gun at bystanders before punching and slapping a man to the ground. 
  The man, one of three people arrested during the episode, was charged with assaulting a police officer.
  Commissioner Shea said that Officer Garcia had been stripped of his gun and badge and placed on modified duty while the Internal Affairs Bureau investigated the encounter, which occurred on Avenue D in Manhattan’s East Village neighborhood.
  “Certainly some tactics that I was not happy with,” Mr. Shea said on NY1 Monday morning. He said that officers had recovered a Taser that did not belong to the police, $3,000 in cash and a small amount of marijuana at the scene.
  Mr. de Blasio  wrote on Twitter  late Sunday that he was “really disturbed” by the video. He added, “The behavior I saw in that video is simply not acceptable.”
  The Metropolitan Transportation Authority will use disinfectant and the advice of medical professionals in coming weeks as it tries to restore faith in a subway system that has been seen as a vector for infection.
  It will also employ poetry.
  The people who pick the verse routinely displayed inside subway cars as part of the “Poetry in Motion” series are already thinking about which works might lift up riders and speak to the city’s place at the center of a global crisis. 
  What they ultimately select, officials said, will be more important than ever. 
  “We are very aware that when people begin using the subway and buses again in greater numbers there is going to be this sense of anxiety,” said Matt Brogan, the executive director of the Poetry Society of America, which runs the subway program with the M.T.A. “The poems have always played a role in making the space welcoming.”
  On a good day, New York City is awash in its neuroses, a tightly wound place where a wide assortment of sky-scraping anxieties can build to an almost comic crescendo.
  But with the coronavirus pandemic grinding on, that angst has reached new heights. Many New Yorkers are cloistered in their homes, often jammed tight with family or roommates; others must report to work in a contaminated city. They are dealing with isolation and fear; some have lost their jobs. Others are sick or in grief.
  It can be overwhelming, even for the mental health professionals who job is to, hopefully, ease such problems. 
  From the city’s many therapist-client relationships — now taking place on Zoom and FaceTime sessions — a new concern has emerged:  mitigating the emotional toll on mental health professionals , who must confront virus-oriented anxiety at work and in their personal lives.
  “Never have I ever gone through a trauma at the same time as my clients,” said Melissa Nesle, a psychotherapist in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan. “I will say to them, ‘Yes this is really stressful; I feel you; I hear it.’ But I want to reassure them that I am OK.”
  She added, “I am not always.”
  Miss hearing the cabs honking, baseball crowds cheering and glasses clinking at a neighborhood bar?
  The New York Public Library has a playlist for you.
  On Friday, the library released “Missing Sounds of New York,” a homage to pre-pandemic New York. It includes eight tracks that capture everyday urban experiences, from riding the subway to stopping by a not-so-quiet neighborhood branch library.
  The free, 16-minute collection was created with an ad agency, Mother New York. It is meant “to bring all New Yorkers together and foster community during an unprecedented time of social separation,” the library said in a news release.
  The Missing Sounds of New York can be  streamed on Spotify    and at  nypl.org/msony . 
  Two men, both of them believed to be homeless, were found dead on subway trains over the weekend in separate episodes, according to the police. The causes of their deaths had not been determined by Monday. 
  The first man, 56, was found late Friday, “slouched over and unconscious” by passengers on a C train at 168th Street in Manhattan, the police said. 
  The man, whose name was not released, did show any signs of trauma, them police said. 
  The second man was found early Saturday in a subway car in Brooklyn, the police said without providing additional details. 
  One of the men tested negative for the virus, while results for the other were pending, officials said.
  The deaths come as the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the police and city officials  struggle to remove homeless people from the trains , where they have sought refuge from shelters infested with the virus. Starting on Wednesday, the round-the-clock system will  close for four hours every night  for disinfection.
  A spokeswoman for Mr. de Blasio, Freddi Goldstein,  wrote on Twitter  of the two men, “Our outreach teams were engaging these individuals but they had not yet agreed to come into shelter. Closing the subway nightly will help.”
  Kenneth Lovett, a senior adviser at the authority, called the deaths “heartbreaking” and said that the M.T.A. was cooperating with the police investigation.
  The city will distribute 7.5 million free face masks to New Yorkers in the coming weeks, expanding a program that began over the weekend, Mr. de Blasio said on Monday. 
  The masks — 5 million three-ply, surgical-style face coverings and another 2.5 million nonmedical cloth masks — will be available at parks, schools and food distribution centers.
  “Wherever you turn, you’re going to be offered a face covering,” Mr. de Blasio said. 
  The arrival of the supplies coincides, the mayor said, with the city being adequately supplied with personal protective equipment for its hospitals for the first time since the crisis began. 
  The mayor said that more protective gear was also being shipped to nursing homes in the city that have received 10 million pieces of P.PE. since March. 
  This week’s shipment includes nearly two million surgical masks, about 170,000 face shields, more than 750,000 pairs of gloves, 15,000 coveralls and aprons and 10,000 shoe coverings.
  Mr. de Blasio also used his briefing to object to statements from two White House economic advisers, Larry Kudlow and Kevin Hassett, who suggested that there were no immediate plans for another stimulus measure that would give federal funding to cities and states.
  He again implored Mr. Trump to speak up in support of such a measure.
  “Why doesn’t he take a stand and tell his advisers to shut up?” the mayor said of President Trump. 
 