[This briefing has ended. For the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak in the New York Area, read  Wednesday’s live coverage .] 
  New York City’s St. Patrick’s Day Parade, the largest such celebration in the world,  was postponed late Wednesday night for the first time  over concerns about the spread of the coronavirus. It is the first time in more than 250 years that the event will not go on as planned.
  The announcement, made by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and parade organizers, follows  the cancellation of St. Patrick’s Day celebrations  in  Chicago  and Boston. Ireland on Monday canceled all parades nationwide.
  The parade, traditionally held on March 17, draws an estimated 150,000 marchers and as many as two million spectators a year to Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, including many police and military groups, firefighters, Irish musicians and student groups  from across the United States . It is one of the city’s largest recurring public events.
  New York’s state and city public university systems, which have a combined enrollment of over 900,000 students in undergraduate and graduate programs across dozens of campuses, will conduct most classes online starting March 19, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said on Wednesday.
  The State University of New York system has more than 60 campuses, while the City University of New York system has about 20 colleges and community colleges in New York City, including Brooklyn College, City College, Queens College, and Hunter College.
  Neither system will cancel all in-person classes. Laboratory courses could continue to be held, although potentially with fewer students.
  CUNY officials said separately on Wednesday that in-person classes were being canceled from Thursday through next Wednesday so that students and faculty members could prepare for the move to online classes.
  Some dormitories will probably remain open for students who cannot return home for hardship reasons.
  “They are not evicting anyone,” Mr. Cuomo said at a news conference. “They are not closing the dorm and kicking you out.”
  The purpose of the move was to “reduce density,” the governor said.
  Some SUNY and CUNY graduation ceremonies will probably “not be happening in person” this spring, said Melissa DeRosa, a top aide to the governor.
  The decision to shift most public university classes in New York online followed similar moves by most major private universities in the state this week. However, private universities like Columbia and New York University have not said the suspension of in-person classes would last through the rest of the spring semester, which typically ends in May.
  SUNY’s student government body, the Student Assembly, released a statement on Wednesday saying students “appreciate” Mr. Cuomo’s decision.
  On Wednesday Mr. Cuomo confirmed 39 additional cases of the coronavirus, bringing the state’s total to 212.
  More than half the total, 121 cases, were in Westchester County. Thirty-two people in the state were hospitalized, Mr. Cuomo said. New York City had 48 confirmed cases of the virus, with 12 new cases announced on Wednesday. (Later on Wednesday, the state Health Department updated its tally to show 216 total positive cases in the state, with 121 in Westchester and 52 in New York City.)
  In New Jersey, Gov. Philip D. Murphy announced eight new cases of the virus, bringing the state’s total to 23, including a man who was the  first in the state to die  in connection with the virus.
  Officials in Connecticut said on Wednesday that the state had a third confirmed case of infection, a 65-year-old man. Officials said that it appears to be the first state case of community spread.
  Globally, more than 120,000 people have been infected with the virus and more than 4,000 people have died, according to official counts. On Wednesday morning, the World Health Organization called the outbreak a global pandemic.
  In the United States, the number of known cases of coronavirus infection passed 1,000 on Tuesday night, with cases in 38 states and Washington, D.C. At least 31 people have died.
  In an interview with MSNBC, Mr. Cuomo said that he intended to ask business leaders in New York to allow workers to telecommute to help stem the spread of the disease.
  He also slammed the federal response to the virus, likening it to the botched reaction to Hurricane Katrina.
  “What I’m saying is at least get out of the way,” Mr. Cuomo said of federal officials. “The horse is out of the barn.”
  A Harlem woman who wanted to be tested was told by health care workers not to worry about her coronavirus-like symptoms. In Brooklyn, a woman had to wait to get tested for the virus until her mother tested positive. A doctor at a statewide hospital network has turned away patients who probably had the virus because they did not meet the current testing criteria.
  President Trump has proclaimed that anyone who wants to get a coronavirus test can. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has declared that the state should be testing 1,000 people a day.
  In New York, though,  the reality seems far more complicated .
  Numerous interviews with doctors, hospital administrators and health officials this week revealed a confused and often troubled testing system in New York that has left many people who believe that they have been exposed to the coronavirus deeply frustrated.
  On Wednesday, Mr. Cuomo acknowledged that the testing shortage was having a significant impact on the state’s effort to curb the outbreak. He said that he had asked 28 private labs in the state to “get up, get running and start moving forward with testing” in order to “greatly increase our testing capacity.”
  An usher who recently worked at two Broadway theaters has tested positive for the coronavirus, prompting a scramble to inform the public and clean the buildings,  according to four industry officials who were briefed on the matter .
  The usher worked last week at performances of a new revival of “Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?,” which is now in previews at the 766-seat Booth Theater, according to the officials, who declined to be identified because they had not been authorized to speak about it.
  The usher previously helped manage lines at “Six,” a new British musical about the wives of Henry VIII, which is in previews at the 1,031-seat Brooks Atkinson Theater, the officials said.
  It was unclear when the usher, who is under quarantine, began showing symptoms, which can emerge within two to 14 days of infection.
  Both shows were expected to go on as scheduled on Wednesday night. The Shubert Organization, which operates the Booth, subjected the building to a deep clean on Wednesday, according to three people who were told about the measure. The Brooks Atkinson is operated by the Nederlander Organization.
  Applause from a studio audience is as vital to talk shows as monologues and celebrity guests.
  But that applause will be silenced for the foreseeable future in New York City after several shows, including “The Late Show With Stephen Colbert” and “The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon,”  announced  on Wednesday that they would begin taping without studio audiences because of concerns over the coronavirus.
  “Per guidance from New York City officials, the company is hoping to do its part to help to decrease the rate of transmission in our communities,” officials from NBC, which produces Mr. Fallon’s show, said in a statement.
  Other shows making the move included “Late Night With Seth Meyers,” “The Daily Show With Trevor Noah,” “Last Week Tonight With John Oliver,” Samantha Bee’s “Full Frontal,” “Live With Kelly and Ryan” and “The View.”
  As “The View" began taping on Wednesday, the camera panned to dozens of empty seats. “Well, hello, hello, hello,” Whoopi Goldberg, one of the show’s hosts, said. “Welcome to ‘The View,’ y’all!”
  “Welcome to ‘The View’,” she repeated seven more times, pretending that there was an audience to hear her.
  Then, sitting at a table with her fellow hosts, Ms. Goldberg put it plainly: “For the first time ever, as you can see, if you looked around, we made the decision not to have a studio audience,” she said. “This is unprecedented.”
 