Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo announced on Saturday night that two State Assembly members from Brooklyn had tested positive for the coronavirus.
  “It has come to our attention that two of our Assembly colleagues — Helene Weinstein and Charles Barron — have been diagnosed with COVID-19,” according to a statement released by Mr. Cuomo and the Assembly speaker, Carl E. Heastie.
  Mr. Barron, 69, and Ms. Weinstein, 67, have not been in Albany since early March “for separate reasons,” according to the statement.
  All legislators and staff who have come in contact with either Assembly member will be tested for the virus. The Capitol and the Legislative Office Building will go through an “intensive cleaning”; the Capitol will also be closed to visitors starting on Sunday. 
  Assembly members sit in tight quarters in an ornate chamber. Democrats, who dominate the 150-member Assembly, also regularly meet in a cramped conference room behind the chamber, passing a microphone from hand to hand as they speak.
  Ms. Weinstein said in a statement that she has not been in Albany since March 4, and had been attending to personal matters in her district. She said that she had not had any contact with her staff or constituents during that period.
  “I began experiencing symptoms on the evening of March 11th and immediately self quarantined,” she said.
  Mr. Barron could not immediately be reached for comment; he is married to a New York City councilwoman, Inez Barron, who also could not be immediately reached. 
  As the news of the Assembly members’ positive tests came, the City Council speaker, Corey Johnson, announced that the Council this week would not hold its scheduled hearings and biweekly stated meeting, where it typically introduces and votes on legislation.
  Mr. Johnson said the Council’s offices at 250 Broadway and in City Hall are also closing until further notice, and that Council staff were to work from home.
  Freddi Goldstein, a spokeswoman for Mayor Bill de Blasio, declined to comment, but said the administration was moving forward with plans to offer telecommuting or a staggered work schedule for about 100,000 city employees.
  
  
  Officials on Saturday reported the first two deaths in New York State linked to the coronavirus. 
  A 65-year-old man from Suffern, in Rockland County northwest of New York City, died on Thursday, county officials said. The county’s chief medical examiner said the man, who was not identified, had “significant health problems” that likely contributed to his death.
  The other victim was an 82-year-old woman who died on Friday night in Brooklyn, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said. 
  The woman, who was also not identified, had emphysema, an underlying medical condition, something the governor said contributed to her death, likening it to fatalities from seasonal influenza. The woman, one of the first to test positive for  the coronavirus in New York City , had been hospitalized on March 3, officials said.
  She died Friday night at Wyckoff Heights Medical Center in Brooklyn.
  “If you are 82 years old and you have emphysema and you get the flu, you are in a grave position,” the governor said.
  Mayor Bill de Blasio responded solemnly to the woman’s death during a live interview on MSNBC on Saturday morning.
  “We’ve been very worried about her,” Mr. de Blasio said. “It’s tragic. We are going to lose some people.”
  Mr. de Blasio also took the opportunity to criticize what he has deemed to be an inadequate response by President Trump to the outbreak. For weeks,  city and state officials have been pleading  with the Trump administration to  speed up access to testing  for the virus, he said.
  “There are some, I am certain, that could have been saved if the testing were here from the beginning,” he said.
  New Jersey has also now had two deaths,  Gov. Philip D. Murphy said on Saturday . The second death was a woman in her 50s who was being treated at a hospital in Monmouth County.
  Fifty people have died from the disease nationwide, Mr. Trump said on Saturday.
  New York City’s Health and Hospitals Corporation, operator of the largest municipal hospital system in the country, plans to cancel nonemergency surgeries. NYU Langone Medical Center’s Tisch Hospital turned a pediatric emergency room into an intensive care unit for adults. Northwell Health, which has a sprawling network of hospitals, is asking retired nurses to return to work.
  But New York City’s hospitals, widely considered among the best in the world, may still be moving too slowly to get ready for a coronavirus outbreak that has already overwhelmed other countries and is now taking root in the New York region, according to many health care experts.
  “We are not prepared to deal with a rapid and severe surge of patients — we’re just not,” said Dr. Christopher M. Tedeschi, a longtime emergency physician and assistant professor at the Columbia University Medical Center. “We’re sort of planning for what’s going on right now, and we’re trying to make up for lost time, but I’m not sure we’re planning for a month from now, or even two weeks from now.”
  Officials emphasize that most coronavirus cases do not require hospitalization. Still, around the city and country, hospitals have begun adopting plans for a surge in patients. Read more about what New York City hospitals have planned  here . 
  As of Saturday night, New York State had 613 confirmed coronavirus cases, officials said.
  The largest concentration of cases was in New York City, where 269 people have tested positive, according to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo.
  There were 178 confirmed cases in Westchester County, just north of New York City. 
  On Long Island, there were 79 confirmed cases in Nassau County and at least 33 in Suffolk County. 
  Just over 20 percent of the total cases in New York were of people who were hospitalized, Mr. Cuomo said on Saturday morning.
  The new totals were announced as New Yorkers prepared for a drastic shift in their daily lives.  Limits on public gatherings in the state  took effect at 5 p.m. Friday.
  Mr. Cuomo reiterated on Saturday that jumps in the number of cases were more a reflection of the state’s ability to test people than of the outbreak’s severity. However, he noted that he expected thousands of additional cases statewide as the virus continues to spread.
  “The infection rate will be massive,” he said.
  Mr. Cuomo said efforts in the city and state were still focused on tamping down the disease where they could. The state tested 700 people for the virus on Friday.
  The governor expressed concerns about hospital capacity, particularly in intensive care. The state has approximately 3,000 I.C.U. beds, about 80 percent of which are already occupied, he said. 
  “That’s what this is all about,” the governor said. “How do you, can you, reduce the rate of spread to a level that your hospital system can manage?”
  On Friday, the federal government said that it would allow the state’s health department to authorize local labs to perform coronavirus tests.
  By next week, New York could be conducting 6,000 tests a day, Mr. Cuomo said on Friday. The state has opened a “drive through” testing facility in New Rochelle, a suburb of New York City  that has been at the center of the epidemic in the state .
  Officials in Hoboken ordered the closure of all gyms, health clubs, day care centers and movie theaters starting on Saturday.
  The order came a day after the city announced its first known positive case of coronavirus and declared a state of emergency. Hoboken’s mayor said on Friday that playgrounds, recreational facilities and fields would be closed through at least March 20, although the city’s parks will remain open. 
  Officials across New Jersey announced similar steps on Saturday. Within Bergen County, all movie theaters will close, and  the American Dream mall  in East Rutherford, N.J., will close starting Sunday. 
  As of Saturday afternoon, New Jersey reported 69 confirmed coronavirus cases. The state will set up a testing center at Bergen County Community College. 
  Officials with the New York archdiocese announced Saturday the cancellation of public mass services after consulting with medical experts. 
  A day earlier the archdiocese, one of the nation’s most influential, had urged Catholics to exercise “their prudential judgment” in deciding whether to attend.
  “The policy evolved,” said Joseph Zwilling, a spokesman with the archdiocese. “Yesterday it was: mass is available, you don’t have to go. Today is: mass will not be available.”
  Churchgoers will have the option to listen and watch weekly morning and Sunday mass services, to be recorded at an empty Saint Patrick’s Cathedral, via the archdiocese’s websites and radio partners, officials said.
  Churches will remain open for private prayer, Mr. Zwilling added.
  The halting of public mass follows the decision from Dutchess County public officials to prohibit gatherings of more than 20 people, which includes archdiocese churches, officials said.
  New York State corrections officials announced on Saturday that they would suspend visitation for the prison system’s nearly 44,000 prisoners, effective until April 11, saying that its “greatest concern is the safety and well-being of our employees and individuals within our care.” 
  The Department of Corrections and Community Supervision would make “special arrangements” to help prisoners help stay in touch with loved ones, including one free phone call, two electronic messages, and five free stamps per week. Legal visits will not be impacted, the department said.
  New Jersey has also suspended all personal visits to its state prisons, but will continue to allow legal visits.
  New York City, long the fascination of many filmmakers, is shutting down many of its landmark movie theaters as part of an ongoing citywide effort to curb large gatherings.
  Theaters that have announced closures  include the Alamo Drafthouse in Brooklyn and Yonkers, the Brooklyn Academy of Music, the Film Society at Lincoln Center and Nitehawk Cinema. Many other city movie theaters are expected to also dim their light in the following days.
  Earlier in the week, Broadway theaters  suspended all plays and musicals  through April 12.    
  Because of reduced demand, Amtrak  announced that it will temporarily switch to a Saturday schedule  on a daily basis for Northeast Corridor and Keystone Service trains. The change will begin March 16 and go through March 29.
  Trains along the Northeast Corridor take passengers between Boston, New York, Washington, and Virginia.
  The Keystone Service line travels from New York to Harrisburg, Pa., with a stop in Philadelphia.
  Mayor Bill de Blasio said Saturday that New York City’s public schools will continue to operate, despite pressure from teachers and parents to join other major school districts and shutter the system.
  “I’m holding where we are right now,” Mr. de Blasio said during a news conference. 
  He said school closures could have myriad unintended consequences, including reducing the capacity of the health care system, which is staffed in part by public school parents. 
  The mayor also said he was particularly concerned about the potential for hundreds of thousands of teenagers being out of school indefinitely without adult supervision and little to do during the day.
  Education officials said that teacher absenteeism had risen this week. Preliminary numbers indicated that nearly 4 percent of teachers were absent this week, roughly double the percentage during the same time period last year. 
  Some teachers have organized protests and are not planning on going to work on Monday, and the city’s teachers’ union has called upon its members to lobby the mayor to close schools. 
  The mayor said Saturday that essential city workers are across the city are continuing to come to work, and encouraged teachers to do the same. The vast majority of teachers, he said, “are showing up and doing their work.”
  The mayor said that a student at I.S. 27 on Staten Island has a confirmed case of the virus, but was not in school while showing symptoms. The school will be cleaned this weekend and will be open as usual on Monday.
  “We shut down the school system, we might not see it for the rest of the school year, we might not see the beginning of the new school year,” he said. “And that weighs heavily on me.”
  On Friday, the City Council speaker, Corey Johnson, called on the city to temporarily close it schools. Read about the pressure to close New York’s public schools  here .
  The city was going into lockdown, or at least that’s what people were saying — probably by Friday morning. The rumor was false but that didn’t slow it down. 
  New York did not go on lockdown. But these rumors did inspire those who were not in a position to flee the city to instead  panic shop .
  Broad-scale emergencies never fail to reveal the fault lines in the American class system, and it was suddenly clear that well-off New Yorkers were going to go about the business of combating the coronavirus differently, with more than fortitude and Purell, because they had a powerful inoculant: secondary real estate. 
  Outside a prewar co-op on lower Fifth Avenue on Friday morning, well-dressed people were loading cats and canvas bags into their hatchbacks. “The building is empty,’’ one woman entering with her dog explained. “Everyone’s gone to the Hamptons.”
  Read more about how  the 1 percent made a panicked exodus to their second homes .
  A day after  New York  officials declared a state of emergency, shoppers flooded stores and emptied shelves as they  prepared for the unknown .
  At a Target store at the Atlantic Terminal in Brooklyn, customers snatched up hand soap, lotion, detergent, vitamins and paper products. Cold and flu medicines were completely sold out.
  Soon after the 9 a.m. opening at a Trader Joe’s in Hoboken, N.J., a line of nervous customers stretched along the block in the rain, waiting to pick through the mostly bare shelves inside. There was no chicken left, and no garbanzo beans, coffee or chips. 
  Once reserved for hurricanes and snowstorms, the frantic pursuit of groceries and household goods has grown more intense in the era of the coronavirus.  More inside the panic-buying here .
 