This briefing has ended. Follow our  latest coverage  of the coronavirus epidemic. 
  President Trump recited some of the most prominent names of Wall Street and Silicon Valley on Tuesday, business leaders who he said would be advising him in when and how to reopen the country’s economy. The announcement came after days of confusion about the makeup of what he has  described as his “Opening the Country” council .
  Among those Mr. Trump said he had plans to speak with were Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase; Stephen A. Schwarzman, the chief executive of Blackstone; Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple; Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook; and Mark Cuban, the billionaire entrepreneur and outspoken Trump critic.
  It was not clear if all the companies and executives Mr. Trump mentioned had been asked in advance if they would serve in advisory roles to the White House. At least one person on the president’s list, who asked not to be identified for fear of angering the White House, said that no request had been made to join the list and that there had been no advance notice of an announcement.
  Later, the White House sent out a news release outlining names that would serve in 17 “Great American Economic Revival Industry Groups,” which it said would work with it “to chart the path forward toward a future of unparalleled American prosperity.”
  The list included Jeff Bezos, the Amazon founder who owns The Washington Post and who has been singled out for criticism throughout his administration. It also included at least two friends of Mr. Trump — Micky Arison, a top executive at Carnival Cruises, and Phil Ruffin, a Las Vegas casino owner.
  Other names Mr. Trump read off during his evening news briefing were Condoleezza Rice, the former secretary of state; Scott Gottlieb, his former commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration; and Jim DeMint, the former senator and president of the Heritage Foundation whom Mr. Trump described as “a terrific friend.”
  “Those are the names we have on our list,” Mr. Trump said. “The names that are, I think, the best and the smartest, the brightest, and they’re going to give us some ideas.”
  President Trump, who has been under criticism for his handling of the response to the  coronavirus  and has seen his poll numbers drop, on Tuesday  blamed the World Health Organization for what he called its failures  in the crisis and said he planned to halt American funding of the organization.
  The announcement came as Mr. Trump continued to be angered by criticism of his response to the pandemic, which has been  assailed as too slow and ineffective , failing to quickly embrace public health measures that could have contained the virus.
  “Everybody knows what is going on there,” he said,  blaming the organization  for what he described as a “disastrous decision to oppose travel restrictions from China and other nations.”
  The president did not say whether the United States would permanently stop funding the W.H.O., saying only that it would halt payments while the administration reviewed its role in handling the virus. Last year, the United States contributed about $553 million of the W.H.O.’s $6 billion budget, a significant sum to lose in the middle of a pandemic.
  Mr. Trump has repeatedly pointed to his decision to impose travel restrictions on China as proof that he responded early to warnings about the dangers of the coronavirus. He said that decision saved “thousands and thousands of lives,” and that the W.H.O. “fought us.” The president blamed the organization for a “20-fold” increase in cases worldwide.
  As recently as February, the W.H.O.  had advised against  imposing travel restrictions to places with outbreaks of the coronavirus, saying it was not an effective way to combat its spread.
  Mr. Trump has been defensive about his decision to institute early travel restrictions on China, crediting himself with saving lives while sustaining criticism for being xenophobic and racist.
  But Mr. Trump has not addressed his administration’s inaction after issuing the travel restrictions, or the gap in the timeline of his response between the restrictions announced on Jan. 31 and the declaration of a national emergency on March 13.
  Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Tuesday issued a blistering attack on the president for his handling of the pandemic, asserting that Mr. Trump had caused “unnecessary deaths and economic disaster” by ignoring early warnings about the disease, bungling the federal response and refusing to take responsibility.
  In a  sharply worded letter  to House Democrats, released as Mr. Trump gave his daily briefing from the White House, Ms. Pelosi portrayed the president as an incompetent liar and called him a “weak person” and a “poor leader,” saying he had obscured the dire reality that the nation still lacks the tests and health equipment needed to combat the pandemic.
  President Trump’s name will appear on the economic stimulus checks that will be mailed to millions of Americans beginning next month, the Treasury Department confirmed on Tuesday.
  The decision to have Mr. Trump’s name appear on the checks, which is a break in protocol, was made by the Treasury Department after Mr. Trump suggested the idea to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, according to a Treasury official. The president’s name will appear on the “memo” section of the check because Mr. Trump is not legally authorized to sign such disbursements.
  A Treasury official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, denied that the decision would delay the disbursement of the checks. The decision about the president’s name on the checks was  earlier reported by The Washington Post .
  Representatives for the I.R.S. and the White House referred questions to the Treasury Department.
  Many Americans may not see the president’s name. Those who are eligible for stimulus payments and have provided their banking information to the I.R.S. will receive the money through direct deposit.
  Treasury and I.R.S. officials briefed House Democrats about the economic stimulus payments this month and said that paper checks would be issued at a rate of about 5 million per week, beginning the week of May 4, for up to 20 weeks.
  A memo that House Democrats drafted after the briefing made no mention of Mr. Trump’s name appearing on the paper checks.
  A day after President Trump claimed that he had “total” authority to reopen the American economy himself — a position that was  widely challenged  by legal scholars, governors and other elected officials from both parties — the president said on Tuesday that he would work with the states.
  “I will be speaking to all 50 governors very shortly, and I will then be authorizing each individual governor of each individual state to implement a reopening,” Mr. Trump said, granting the governors an authority most contended they already possessed. Mr. Trump added that the reopenings would be “at a time and in a manner as most appropriate” for each state.
  “The day will be very close,” he said, holding out the possibility that some states without large outbreaks could reopen before May 1.
  Backing off an earlier, combative stance, the president said he would not pressure any governor to reopen before they were comfortable with that decision. But “they know it is time to open,” he added.
  His remarks came a day after groups of governors on the East and West Coasts announced that they planned to work together in regional groups to decide when and how to reopen business.
  In an  extraordinary White House briefing  on Monday evening, Mr. Trump had claimed that “numerous provisions” in the Constitution, which he did not name, gave him the authority to override the states if they wanted to remain closed. Legal experts, and numerous governors,  said presidents had no such power .
  Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington State, a Democrat, said on Tuesday that the president’s remarks were dangerous: “No one with even the most basic understanding in our middle schools thinks that we have a royalty situation where someone is vested with such a high degree of wisdom that they can countermand the duly elected governors.”
  Gov. Kate Brown of Oregon, a Democrat, said the move toward reopening would be a cautious one, done incrementally. Gov. J.B. Pritzker of Illinois, a Democrat who has emerged as an outspoken critic of the president, said that he would rely on the advice of scientists and epidemiologists when considering whether to reopen.
  “There is no one who wants our state to open up more than I do,” he said at a news conference on Tuesday. “But no matter what the president may say, I will do what’s best to safeguard the health and safety of Illinois residents.”
  Beyond Democratic governors and legal scholars, some of Mr. Trump’s Republican allies also questioned his  sweeping claim of executive power . Gov. Larry Hogan of Maryland, a Republican who is the chairman of the National Governors Association,  told CNN , “It’s not my understanding of the Constitution.’
  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said on Tuesday that  9,282 health care professionals had contracted the coronavirus  in the United States as of April 9, and that 27 had died from it.
  The C.D.C. cautioned that the numbers are likely higher because of inconsistencies in data-gathering and lack of information during the outbreak. The occupational status of patients was available for only 16 percent of the cases in the United States that were reported to the C.D.C.
  Health care workers are among the most vulnerable groups during the pandemic because of their proximity to infected patients, a situation made worse because some have been working with inadequate protective equipment and clothing.
  The report said that some health care professionals with mild or asymptomatic cases may not have been tested at all.
  The 9,282 reported cases of infected health care workers are 3 percent of the total number of cases reported to the C.D.C. using a standardized form during the period from Feb. 12 to April 9. The agency said that among states with more complete reporting of the occupational status of patients, the number of infected health care workers rose to 11 percent.
  New York City, already a center of the coronavirus outbreak, sharply increased its death toll by more than 3,700 on Tuesday, after officials said they were now including people who had never tested positive for the virus but were presumed to have died because of it.
  The new figures, released by the city’s Health Department,  drove up the number of people killed in New York City to more than 10,000  and appeared to increase the overall United States fatality rate by 17 percent, to more than 26,000.
  The numbers brought into clearer focus the staggering toll the virus has already taken on the largest city in the United States, where deserted streets are haunted by the near-constant howl of ambulance sirens.
  Far more people have died in New York City on a per-capita basis than in Italy, the European country with the most deaths.
  The revised death toll renewed focus on shortcomings in testing that have hamstrung city and state officials  since the beginning of the outbreak . A limited number of tests has been available, and until now, only deaths where a person had tested positive were counted among those killed by the virus in New York.
  But for weeks, the Health Department also had been recording additional deaths tied to the virus, according to two people briefed on the matter. Those cases involved people who were presumed to have been infected because of their symptoms and medical histories.
  They were not included in the counts given publicly by Mayor Bill de Blasio because no tests had confirmed that the victims had Covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus.
  Officials like Mr. Cuomo, encouraged by data suggesting a flattening curve, have begun to edge toward setting a strategy for reopening New York, partnering with other states in the Northeast, including New Jersey, to create a coordinated strategy. But Mr. Cuomo has emphasized that the reopening was dependent on New Yorkers continuing to observe the restrictions that were imposed weeks ago.
  Scientists agree that six feet is a sensible and useful minimum distance for people to separate from one another, but some say that  farther away would be better .
  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, one of the organizations using the measure, bases its recommendation on the idea that most large droplets that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground within six feet.
  But some scientists, concerned about smaller particles called aerosols and having looked at studies of air flow, suggest that people consider a number of factors, including their own vulnerability and whether they are outdoors or in an enclosed room, when deciding if six feet is enough.
  Sneezes, for instance, can launch droplets a lot farther than six feet, according to a  recent study , as  a Times 3-D simulation  shows.
  No scientists are suggesting a wholesale change in behavior or proposing that some other distance from another human is better.
  “Everything is about probability,” said Dr. Harvey Fineberg, the chairman of the Standing Committee on Emerging Infectious Diseases and 21st Century Health Threats at the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine. “Three feet is better than nothing. Six feet is better than three feet.”
  The Trump administration has reached an agreement in principle with major airline companies over the terms of a $25 billion bailout to prop up an industry that has been hobbled by the coronavirus pandemic.
  The Treasury Department said that Alaska Airlines, Allegiant Air, American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Frontier Airlines, Hawaiian Airlines, JetBlue Airways, United Airlines, SkyWest Airlines and Southwest Airlines will be participating in the payroll support program, which was created as part of the economic stabilization package that Congress passed last month.
  American Airlines said it would receive $5.8 billion as part of the deal, with more than $4 billion in grants and the remaining $1.7 billion as a low-interest loan. The funds are intended to be used to pay employees, and the airlines that take them are prohibited from major staffing or pay cuts through September.
  American Airlines plans to separately apply for a nearly $4.8 billion loan from the department as well.
  Southwest Airlines said it expected to receive $3.2 billion, about $1 billion of which would come in the form of a low-interest loan with a 10-year term. 
  Airlines for America, an industry lobbying group, said that as of April 9, American airline carriers had idled 2,200 aircraft and that passenger volume was down 95 percent from a year ago. The industry expects global passenger revenues to fall by $252 billion this year.
  Even before a single resident tested positive for the coronavirus at a nursing home in Richmond, Va., staff members were worried. Triple rooms were not uncommon. Supplies were hard to come by. And there were not enough nurses for all the aging patients inside.
  All that made the home, the Canterbury Rehabilitation & Healthcare Center, an ideal place for the virus to spread,  which it quickly did, with catastrophic results .
  At least 45 residents of the nursing home have died after falling ill with the virus, the highest known death toll at a long-term care facility in the United States, according to an  analysis of case data  by The New York Times.
  The facility has struggled to stop the outbreak, which has killed more than a quarter of its residents and infected about 80 percent of them, in part because of what staff members described as crowded conditions and a lack of resources.
  “That’s what a virus wants,” said Dr. Jim Wright, the facility’s medical director. “A number of people with multiple illnesses, living very closely. Viruses love that.”
  The Times has identified more than 2,500 nursing homes and other long-term care facilities across the United States with coronavirus cases, including  the Life Care nursing home in Kirkland, Wash.,  which was linked to at least 43 deaths. More than 21,000 residents and staff members at those facilities have contracted the virus, and more than 3,800 have died.
  On Tuesday, Gov. Gavin Newsom  said the state would be moving from its broad shelter-in-place order  to a more individual approach to suppressing the virus, without immediately giving a time frame for the shift.
  Numbers of infections and deaths have stabilized, but he said that any decisions about reopening society would be based on “public health, not politics,” and would be gradual and depend in part on building and tracking immunity within the population.
  “We are not out of the woods yet, and we are not spiking the ball,” he said.
  The state, which has the nation’s largest economy, has been ahead of the rest of the country in confronting the pandemic, locking down early and so far avoiding worst-case scenarios for infections and deaths. How it calibrates reopening will provide examples of what works and what doesn’t, especially given limits on testing capacity.
  Mr. Newsom warned Californians that even in the next phase, restrictions might be loosened and tightened “as we toggle from stricter to looser” interventions “as data comes in.”
  The governor did offer a glimpse of what California’s “new normal” would be like. Face coverings are likely to be a feature of public life, at least for a time. Patrons of restaurants are likely to have their temperature taken before being seated and will be served by someone in a mask and gloves. Menus might be disposable.
  “Normal it will not be,” he said. “At least until we have herd immunity and a vaccine.”
  His comments came as a top health official warned that another wave of infections was likely to occur, given how contagious the virus is.
  Dr. Robert Redfield, the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said Tuesday that “we’re definitely going to have a second wave” of coronavirus infections in the fall, with outbreaks likely to become a seasonal phenomenon.
  “We’ve got six months now to get really prepared,” Dr. Redfield said  in an interview  on Sirius XM’s “Doctor Radio.” “We’re stabilized. We’re almost at the peak. I think the cases will drop fast, but what we don’t need is to have a secondary bump in June or July because certain areas of the nation relaxed their mitigation strategies too quickly.”
  Dr. Redfield called the virus “the most infectious respiratory virus I’ve seen in my lifetime” and said he was especially worried about containing it in nursing homes, even with widespread antibody and diagnostic testing.
  Mr. Newsom, who on Monday said that California was working with Oregon and Washington on a strategy to begin lifting stay-at-home orders, outlined several indicators that the state would try to meet before relaxing restrictions:
  Large gatherings over the summer “are not in the cards” he said. And when the school year starts in the fall students might attend in shifts staggered through the day to avoid crowded classrooms.
  The stay-at-home orders that have shuttered businesses around the country are sending state and local tax collections plummeting, opening yawning shortfalls in their budgets as their expenses are being sharply driven up by the pandemic.
  In Oklahoma, the sharp downturn in the oil and gas markets sent tax collections down,  creating a shortfall . In Michigan, more than one million people — over a quarter of the state’s work force — have  filed for unemployment  during the pandemic. Gov. David Ige of Hawaii told tourists to stay away, idling his state’s main economic engine.
  All of which is sending tax collections way down. Sales taxes, the biggest source of revenue for most states, have fallen off a cliff as consumers stay home because of the coronavirus pandemic. Personal income taxes, usually the second biggest, started falling in March, when millions lost their paychecks and tax withholdings stopped. April usually brings a big influx of income-tax money, but this year the filing deadlines have been pushed back to July.
  “This is going to be horrific for state and local finances,” said Donald J. Boyd, the head of Boyd Research, an economics and fiscal consulting firm, whose clients include states and the federal government.
  On the local level, 88 percent of cities anticipate revenue shortfalls this year, and more than half are already drawing up plans to cut staff or services, according to a survey of local officials released Tuesday by the U.S. Conference of Mayors and the National League of Cities.
  “Our cities are hurting, and our residents are scared,” said Mayor Greg Fischer of Louisville, Ky., where authorities have recorded nearly 600 cases.
  The National Governors Association is seeking $500 billion in federal aid to offset what it is describing as “drastic state revenue shortfalls.” Local officials are urging the federal government to send aid to municipal governments around the nation.
  But the latest round of stimulus has stalled in Washington.
  And the expenses of responding to the public health emergency are swiftly being joined by the expenses of providing services to newly-needy residents.
  “What Congress must understand — and what we are shouting in unison today — is that this is not a big city problem; it’s an every city problem,” said Mayor Bryan K. Barnett of Rochester Hills, Mich., who is also president of the U.S. Conference of Mayors.
  Even if states are able to stretch their finances temporarily to cover short-term budget shortfalls, the economic recovery is expected to be slow. That means tax revenues from tourism, oil and gas drilling, conventions and other activities are unlikely to bounce back swiftly.
  Stocks rose on Tuesday, following global markets higher after China reported a smaller-than-expected hit to trade and some countries began to take tiny steps  to reopen their economies . The S&P 500 rose about 3 percent, with shares of companies that have been hard hit by the coronavirus-related shutdowns — like cruise and casino operators — leading the gains.
  Stocks have been  slowly climbing  their way out of a slump that had wiped trillions of value from financial markets in late February and early March, as investors have begun to look for signs of the eventual recovery from the outbreak.
  Stocks were helped on Tuesday by March trade data from Chinese customs officials that was better than expected. But the optimism may not linger, as China’s reopening could be a  long and painful process , worsened by slumping demand for its goods in countries dealing with the coronavirus outbreak, and as American companies continued to try to take advantage of billions of dollars in federal relief funds.
  Restaurants and hotels, which have taken the largest economic hit so far from the pandemic, have received less than one-tenth of the  special federal assistance  for small businesses that Mr. Trump approved earlier this month. A  presentation  from the Small Business Administration, shared with members of Congress on Tuesday, shows more than one million loans totaling nearly $250 billion have been approved, out of the $350 billion allocated for the program.
  The loans are allocated on a first-come, first-serve basis, in a process that has given an advantage to businesses with existing lender relationships and the resources to navigate the government application process. If borrowers abide by certain conditions, including spending the bulk of the money on employee payroll, they will never have to pay back the money.
  Disagreements about government actions, corporate inaction and, in at least one case, an accusation of official overreach brought the coronavirus pandemic into the American court system on Tuesday:
  As the United States debates when and how to let businesses reopen, Italy and Spain, the two European nations hardest hit by the pandemic, are taking small steps to begin easing the restrictions they imposed to stem their outbreaks.
  After  extending a lockdown  from April 13 to May 3, the Italian government reopened some stores on Tuesday, including stationers, bookshops and children’s clothing stores, a sign of a gradual return to normalcy. But the loosening will not apply in regions where infection rates have yet to decline significantly — including Lombardy, Piedmont and Campania — and some other regions took their own approaches.
  “Stores, bans and walks. Italy becomes a puzzle,” read a headline in Rome daily La Repubblica Tuesday, a nod to the scattered approach. Italy’s total number of confirmed cases was just shy of 160,000 and deaths surpassed the 20,000 mark on Monday.
  And in Spain, more regions reopened factories and building sites on Tuesday, joining others that had already begun a gradual return to work. The easing of restrictions there has triggered a debate over safety. But many factories are so far only recalling just a fraction of their work forces. Spain registered a slight uptick in deaths on Tuesday — 567 overnight, with the total surpassing 18,000 since the start of the crisis.
  Restaurants and hotels, which have taken the largest economic hit so far from the pandemic, have received less than one-tenth of the  special federal assistance  for small businesses that Mr. Trump approved earlier this month.
  A  presentation  from the Small Business Administration, shared with members of Congress on Tuesday, shows more than one million loans totaling nearly $250 billion have been approved, out of the $350 billion allocated for the program. Those figures match the numbers that Larry Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council, shared with reporters on Tuesday at the White House.
  The loans are allocated on a first-come, first-serve basis, in a process that has given an advantage to businesses with existing lender relationships and the resources to navigate the government application process. If borrowers abide by certain conditions, including spending the bulk of the money on employee payroll, they will never have to pay back the money.
  The S.B.A. report breaks down those loans by industry and by state. It shows that construction companies have garnered the largest share of the money thus far: nearly $34 billion, which is about 14 percent of the total. The next largest share went to professional, scientific and technical services firms, followed by manufacturers and health care companies.
  “Accommodation and food services” borrowers rank fifth, with just under $23 billion in loans.
  The geographic flow of the funds is not lining up thus far with the economic damage from the virus. The largest recipient state is Texas, which has secured 88,400 loans worth nearly $22 billion, followed by California with $21 billion. New York companies have secured less than half as many loans as Texas companies, worth about $12 billion in total.
  At the end of last week, according to the Labor Department, about 5 percent of Texas’s labor force had filed for unemployment benefits. In California and New York, the share was more than twice as high . 
  Abortion clinics in Tennessee and Louisiana filed lawsuits in federal courts on Tuesday to stop abortion bans related to the coronavirus. The moves bring the total of states where legal fights are unfolding to seven; the five others are Texas, Alabama, Arkansas, Ohio and Oklahoma.
  The filings came a day after the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reversed itself on medication abortion in Texas — a surprise move that means this early-stage abortion involving two pills is now allowed.
  The appeals court’s reversal allows, for now, many more women access to abortion, rights groups say, but does nothing to lift the ban on most surgical abortions.
  “Medication abortion is only available through 10 weeks in Texas,” said Julie Rikelman, senior litigation director at the Center for Reproductive Rights. “That’s still very difficult for many people because abortions are only available at that point in pregnancy in a few places in Texas.”
  A spokeswoman for the Texas attorney general’s office did not respond to a request for comment.
  Joe Pojman, who heads the Texas Alliance for Life, said in an email: “We are disappointed by the court’s latest action. The latest order fails to recognize the danger that abortion providers pose to the public by refusing to comply with the Governor’s executive order in the same way that other providers of nonemergency surgeries and procedures have done.”
  The fight over abortion rights, rather than receding into the background during the pandemic, has intensified as several states banned the procedure in recent weeks as part of emergency measures to fight the virus.
  In seven states, state authorities have included abortion as a nonessential medical procedure, arguing that postponement is necessary to preserve medical and protective equipment. Abortion rights groups say the pandemic is being used as a pretense to restrict abortion, and have sued five of the states to stop them.
  Out of the states trying to limit abortion, only Texas had been successful; the others have been blocked by judges, but that could change. Especially in Texas, several weeks of legal back-and-forth have caused confusion for patients and their doctors.
  A class-action lawsuit was filed in United States District Court in Miami on Tuesday on behalf of thousands of crew members who worked lately aboard Celebrity Cruise ships, many of whom tested positive for the coronavirus while on board the vessels.
  The  lawsuit accuses the cruise line  of failing to provide protective gear to its workers and being slow to implement sanitary protocols.
  Alexandra Nedeltcheva, 54, a Bulgarian waitress, became a plaintiff after she and dozens of others on the Celebrity Apex got sick while the ship was in a French shipyard undergoing repairs. “We asked to wear masks, and they said it was not possible,” Ms. Nedeltcheva said in an interview. “You live in constant fear of dying.”
  Nearly 80,000 crew members are still stranded at sea a month after cruise lines suspended operations, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Many of them are in quarantine after the departures of sick passengers and crew, and still more are in limbo because of border closings around the world that prevent their repatriation.
  “One of the big problems we have seen is that they are very afraid to speak up for fear of losing their jobs,” said Michael Winkleman, a maritime lawyer in Miami who filed the lawsuit.
  The cruise line did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
  For close to 70 years, Georgia has had a broad ban on people donning face masks in public — a policy, a court once noted, written to combat racist violence and “to safeguard the people of Georgia from terrorization by masked vigilantes.”
  But with the Atlanta-based Centers for Disease Control and Prevention urging people to wear cloth facial coverings in public, the law is now on hold. Gov. Brian Kemp, who signed  an executive order  on Monday to suspend the law for people wearing masks to prevent the spread of the virus, said he wanted to ensure “people can follow the guidance of public health officials without fear of prosecution.”
  The law, which the State Supreme Court upheld in 1990 after a challenge by a member of the Ku Klux Klan, ordinarily makes it a misdemeanor in many instances if someone wears “a mask, hood or device by which any portion of the face is so hidden, concealed or covered as to conceal the identity of the wearer.” The measure has a list of exceptions, including permitting masks for theatrical or Halloween costumes, but there is no public health exemption.
  Alarmed by an episode elsewhere that led to two men being ejected from a store for wearing masks because of the pandemic, Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms of Atlanta had already ordered police officers in Georgia’s capital not to arrest or cite people who wore facial coverings for health reasons.
  State Senator Nikema Williams, the chairwoman of Georgia’s Democratic Party, had also warned Mr. Kemp that keeping the law on the books as usual could lead to greater racial profiling of black people by the authorities.
  Two House Democrats want to include legislation in an upcoming economic rescue package that would tighten financial regulations and reinforce some of the provisions of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, arguing that the recent volatility in the markets is a sign that more oversight is needed.
  Representatives Katie Porter, Democrat of California, and Jesús García, who is known as Chuy, Democrat of Illinois, will introduce the Systemic Risk Mitigation Act on Tuesday.
  The bill would bolster the Financial Stability Oversight Council and the Office of Financial Research, two bodies that are overseen by the Treasury Department and that have been allowed to languish in terms of funding, staffing and influence by Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary.
  The Trump administration has been quietly chipping away at financial regulations over the last three years, and the bill would reverse some of those efforts.
  It would place more stringent requirements on shadow banks, the loosely regulated non-bank lenders that take riskier bets, by automatically designating some of them “systemically important” and subjecting them to stronger capital requirements and stress tests. It would give the oversight council the power to make rules to address risky activity. And it would create a subcommittee that would address climate risks.
  “We learned in 2008 what happens when an entire sector of our economy is under-regulated,” Ms. Porter said. “I’ve seen this movie before, and I didn’t like it the first time.”
  Last year, the council announced that it would  use a new method  to determine if firms posed broad risks to the financial system, and that it would label institutions “systemically important” only in extremely rare cases. Former regulators warned that this erosion of the post-financial crisis regulatory structure could threaten the stability of the financial system.
  Mr. Garcia said that Republicans who had been talking about the need for more deregulation were trying to take advantage of the current crisis. He said that he hoped the legislation could find a home in one of the broader economic relief measures expected in the coming months.
  “As Covid-19 drags us into another recession, the Trump administration’s deregulation of banks and shadow banks put us at greater risk than ever,” Mr. Garcia said.
  A group of church leaders in Southern California filed a lawsuit on Monday against Gov. Gavin Newsom and other officials, arguing that social distancing orders violated the constitutional right to assemble and freedom of religion.
  California instituted a sweeping  stay at home order on March 19 , and many public health officials have pointed to the early actions as critical in keeping the outbreak in the state in check.
  The stay at home orders, accompanied by strict limitations on how many people can gather in public, have impacted religious services of all faiths.
  The lawsuit, which was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California, argued that since the state considers “coffee baristas, burger flippers, and laundromat technicians to be so necessary for society,” religious services should be granted exemptions.
  Religious gatherings  have been at the center of disputes across the country and the Justice Department has signaled that it may take action.
  Kerri Kupec, a spokeswoman for the department, wrote on Twitter recently that Attorney General William P. Barr was monitoring the regulations being put in place across the country.
  “While social distancing policies are appropriate during this emergency, they must be applied evenhandedly,” she  wrote on Saturday . “Expect action from DOJ next week!”
  Before Easter, Mr. Newsom said that those planning to worship could continue to do so in a safe manner.
  “As you pray, move your feet at least six feet apart from someone else,” he said. “Practice your faith, but do so in a way that allows you to keep yourself healthy, keep others healthy.”
  In the middle of a pandemic, it’s natural to have moments of fear and anxiety. Sometimes, just knowing what’s happening can help, whether it’s learning about how to manage emotions on a personal level or understanding how to put the virus into context on a broader scale.
 