Read our  live Coronavirus Pandemic  coverage here. 
  Researchers have long known that masks can  prevent people from spreading airway germs  to others.
  But now experts are pointing to evidence suggesting that masks  also protect the people wearing them , lessening the severity of symptoms, or in some instances, staving off infection entirely.
  Different kinds of masks “block virus to a different degree, but they all block the virus from getting in,” said Dr. Monica Gandhi, an infectious disease physician at the University of California, San Francisco. If any virus particles do breach these barriers, she said, the disease might still be milder.
  Dr. Gandhi and her colleagues make this argument in a  paper  to be published in the Journal of General Internal Medicine. Drawing from animal experiments and observations of various events during the pandemic, they contend that people wearing face coverings will take in fewer coronavirus particles.
  Dr. Tsion Firew, an emergency physician at Columbia University who wasn’t involved in the work, cautioned that the links between masking and milder disease haven’t yet been proved as cause and effect. 
  Ideas about the importance of viral dose in the development of disease have cropped up in the medical literature since  at least the 1930s . More recently, scientists have gone as far as to  puff different amounts of a flu virus  up the noses of human volunteers. The more virus in this nasal plume, they found, the likelier the participants were to get infected and experience symptoms.
  That sort of experiment can’t be done ethically for the new coronavirus, given how dangerous it is. But earlier this year, a team of researchers in China tried something similar in hamsters: They housed coronavirus-infected and healthy animals in adjoining cages, some of which were separated by buffers made of surgical masks. Many of the healthy hamsters behind the partitions never got infected. And the unlucky animals who did  got less sick  than their “maskless” neighbors.
  Rules around mask wearing have been highly politicized. President Trump spent months questioning their utility and refusing to wear one in public, though he has recently changed course. 
  Another of summer’s most cherished rites was upended by the pandemic on Monday when the attempted return of Major League Baseball hit a snag, as the Miami Marlins postponed their home opener after 14 members of the team tested positive for the coronavirus.
  The troubled return of the national pastime, after  months of careful planning,  was only the latest sign that the virus, instead of ebbing over the summer as officials had once hoped it would, is spreading at record levels across wide sections of the United States.
  A month that began with  canceled July 4 fireworks displays  across the country and  sporadic beach closures  has continued with edicts shutting down  the bars of Bourbon Street  in New Orleans and the  dance floors of Nashville . Now a new round of cancellations —  including the Marlins game and a Phillies game in Philadelphia , where the visiting Yankees would have had to use the same clubhouse that the Marlins had — is continuing to disrupt summer life.
  The infections, and postponements, cast a pall over baseball’s plans to attempt a 60-game season using 30 stadiums,  including a ballpark in Buffalo for the Toronto Blue Jays , who were barred from playing home games by the Canadian government because of the risk of travel to and from the United States.
  Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the nation’s top infectious disease expert, warned early on about how the pandemic would transform professional sports. He threw out the first pitch at baseball’s opening game last Thursday between the Yankees and Washington Nationals, an image featured on a limited-edition Topps NOW baseball card that Topps said sold 51,512 copies during its 24-hour offering. 
  Topps said that the demand for the card was more than double the previous record for a Topps NOW card, which was 19,396 copies of a Vladimir Guerrero Jr. card in 2019.
  There will also be no summer blockbuster at the local movie theater: “Tenet,” the Christopher Nolan thriller that Warner Bros. had hoped would lure fans back to multiplexes this month, has been postponed until Sept. 4, the beginning of Labor Day weekend.
  The political blockbusters planned for later this summer — the national conventions — will be unrecognizable from in years past. President Trump said last week that he was bowing to the reality of the virus and canceling the convention activities he had tried to move to Jacksonville, Fla., after officials in North Carolina, where they were initially supposed to be held, had insisted on enforcing health guidelines. And Democrats have long been working on  a scaled-back convention in Milwaukee  where they plan to nominate Joseph R. Biden Jr. 
  One of the other big television events of the summer — the Olympics — is off, too. Tokyo, where the games were supposed to be underway right now, instead finds itself grappling with  record numbers of new cases on several recent days.  
  Even the unofficial end of summer — the start of the school year — is being postponed in many districts, where officials say that they need more time to prepare for classes, which will be held in person in some places and online in others.
  President Trump shared on his Twitter account Monday night a viral video containing a series of false or misleading medical claims about the coronavirus, as social media companies scrambled to halt the video’s rapid spread.
  Facebook and YouTube removed versions of the video, and Twitter later removed the post shared by the president. At least one version, which was shared on Facebook by the right-wing Breitbart news site, had garnered over 13 million views before it was removed. Other versions of the video, including shorter, edited clips, were still online Monday night.    
  The video featured what appeared to be a group of doctors in white coats, standing in front of the Supreme Court building in Washington, D.C., in what appeared to be a news conference. The doctors made a series of misleading claims, including that hydroxychloroquine could be taken as a preventive measure. 
  The use of the drug to treat or prevent coronavirus has been  widely disputed by the medical establishment . The Food and Drug Administration  revoked its emergency authorization  in June after deeming it “unlikely to be effective” while carrying potential risks, and the National Institutes of Health  halted clinical trials of the drug in June . But Mr. Trump repeatedly boosted the drug in the early months of the crisis, and said in June he was taking it himself.    
  It was the most recent example of  misinformation that has spread about the coronavirus , at times being shared by Mr. Trump and others in the White House. A YouTube spokesman said in a statement that the video had been removed for “violating Covid-19 misinformation policies.”
  Republicans are seeking a $400-per-week reduction in unemployment benefits in their $1 trillion economic recovery package, initially lowering the extra federal payments for tens of millions of jobless Americans from $600 to $200, according to Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader.
  The proposal to slash the jobless aid by two-thirds, part of a Republican plan they began rolling out on Monday afternoon, is likely to be among the most bitterly contested issues in bipartisan negotiations over the next round of pandemic relief. Democrats support a $3 trillion package that includes extending the $600-per-week federal payments, which expire on Friday, through the end of the year.
  Many Republicans detest the supplement to state jobless aid, put in place by the $2.2 trillion stimulus law, arguing that it is a disincentive to returning to work because it exceeds what some workers can earn in regular wages. The Republican proposal, which has  badly divided the party , envisions eventually shifting to a new system of calculating benefits that would cap payments at about 70 percent of a worker’s prior income,  which would also amount to about $200 per week .
  It also proposes another round of $1,200 direct payments to Americans.
  In a nod to the long odds of striking a deal before the benefits expire on Friday, administration officials continue to  float the prospect of speeding through a much narrower bill  that would extend extra jobless aid, provide funding for schools and enact new liability shields for operating businesses.
  But Democrats have rejected that idea, saying it would sap momentum for other crucial relief measures.
  Democratic leaders left a nearly two-hour meeting with White House officials on Monday evening saying they were unsatisfied with the opening bid Republicans had put forward and all but taunting their Senate counterparts for struggling to coalesce around a proposal.
  “If they’re not even getting to the fundamentals of food and rent and economic survival, they’re not really ready to have a serious negotiation,” Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California said after nearly two hours of meeting with Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary; Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff; and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the minority leader. Mr. Schumer added, “We hope they can get their act together — we very much want to get something done for the needs of the people.”
  Mr. Meadows, as he left Ms. Pelosi’s office with Mr. Mnuchin, declared it a good meeting and said the pair would return on Tuesday.
  Both Democratic leaders said they planned to carefully review the Republican offer overnight.
  Even as the virus rages across much of the nation, forcing many states to slow or reverse their reopenings, President Trump said on Monday that more states should be opening up.
  During a visit to a North Carolina biotechnology lab, Mr. Trump boasted that progress toward a vaccine was “substantially ahead of schedule” and that a breakthrough would lead to a “tremendous” economic recovery. 
  In the next breath, Mr. Trump complained that “a lot of the governors should be opening up states that they’re not opening, and we’ll see what happens with them.”
  It was something of a return to form for Mr. Trump, who has  long pressed states to reopen , downplaying the threat of the virus, but who had  seemed to shift last week  when he declared at the White House that the virus “will probably, unfortunately, get worse before it gets better.”
  But on Monday, Mr. Trump also urged Americans to “especially focus on maintaining a social distance, maintaining rigorous hygiene, avoid large gatherings and crowded indoor bars and wears masks when appropriate.” And he then donned a mask himself for a subsequent tour of the lab facility, where researchers are making components for a potential vaccine.
  Mr. Trump spoke after the White House announced that his national security adviser,  Robert C. O’Brien, had tested positive for the coronavirus , making him the most senior White House official known to have contracted the virus. In a statement, the White House said that Mr. O’Brien “has mild symptoms” and is working remotely from “a secure location off site.”
  Mr. O’Brien typically works from a West Wing office that is steps away from the Oval Office. It is unclear when he was last in contact with Mr. Trump, although he joined him on a  July 10 trip to Florida . A photo of Mr. O’Brien taken after he left the plane in Miami shows him without a mask.
  Dr. Deborah L. Birx, the Trump administration’s coronavirus response coordinator, made it clear during a visit to Tennessee on Monday that she believed that everyone in the state should be required to wear masks — but she stopped short of publicly asking its governor to issue a statewide mandate.
  “We need 100 percent of the counties, including the rural counties, to have these mandates,” Dr. Birx said  during a news conference .
  Then the state’s governor, Bill Lee, a Republican, took to the lectern and was asked if Dr. Birx had pressed him to issue a statewide mandate. “We talked about statewide mandates. We also talked about alternative approaches,” he said. Tennessee reported 2,871 new cases on Sunday, the most it has reported in a single day, according to  a New York Times database. 
  It was another example of how the nation’s patchwork of rules and recommendations at different levels of government has complicated efforts to control the virus.
  Federal health officials issue guidelines and make recommendations, but state and local officials do not always follow them. Mr. Trump has been dismissive of or slow to promote some federal recommendations — it took weeks for him to appear in a mask after health experts called for face coverings — and suggested on Monday that more governors should reopen.    
  As Kentucky officials weighed new restrictions, Dr. Birx said over the weekend that the leaders of nearby states should consider doing the same by closing bars again and issuing restrictions on public gatherings “to really make it possible to control the pandemic before it gets worse.”
  Gov. Andy Beshear of Kentucky said Monday that the state’s bars would have to close again to slow the spread, about a month after they had reopened.    He also reduced the legal restaurant capacity from 50 percent to 25 percent, and issued an informal recommendation that schools wait until the third week of August to resume in-person classes.
  Kentucky had already implemented two other recommendations put forward by Dr. Birx: requiring face masks for public indoor spaces, and limiting social gatherings to 10 people. “I don’t want to be a state where casket makers are running out,” Mr. Beshear said.
  States in the South and Midwest are facing the prospect of shutting down parts of their economies again to try to stem the virus, which the Trump administration and many governors have increasingly been forced to  recognize as unrelenting .  Florida  has surpassed New York, an early center of the pandemic in the United States when testing was scarce, in the number of known cases. And on Monday, Oklahoma and New Mexico broke state records for single-day cases. Texas became the fourth state to record over 400,000 total cases, after California, Florida and New York.
  And despite increased testing capacity across the nation, there is a consensus among federal state and local officials that test results are taking too long.
  Britain will crack down on junk food advertising and introduce calorie counts on menus in an effort to tackle obesity and ease the pressure on the country’s National Health Service amid the coronavirus pandemic, the government said on Monday.
  For the British prime minister, Boris Johnson, the intersection of obesity and the coronavirus is personal. Mr. Johnson was, by his own admission, “way overweight” when he was admitted to the hospital after  becoming ill with Covid-19 this year , and his health deteriorated to such an extent that  at one point he needed intensive care .
  Studies have  linked obesity to a greater risk of serious illness or death from Covid-19 , and Mr. Johnson,  writing in the British newspaper The Daily Express , described his time in hospital as a “wake-up call.”
  “We all put things off — I know I have,” Mr. Johnson wrote. “I’ve wanted to lose weight for ages and like many people I struggle with my weight.”
  As part of the government’s  new obesity strategy , advertisements for any food high in fat, sugar or salt will be banned on television and online until 9 p.m. to avoid hours when children are most likely to see them. There will also be a consultation on whether Britain should entirely ban online ads for junk food.
  All large restaurants and cafes will be required to add a calorie count to their menus, and the government will look into adding calorie labels to alcoholic drinks.
  Promotional offers like “buy one, get one free” on fatty or sugary foods will also be prohibited.
  Instead of the welcome that a tourism-hungry island would usually extend, travelers to Puerto Rico over the weekend encountered angry protesters outside the San Juan airport, demanding that the airport be closed to tourists.
  The protesters’ complaint: Too many visitors have been blithely ignoring social-distancing precautions and mask mandates.
  A caravan of cars honking their horns, with protesters holding up signs, blocked traffic into the airport, and some protesters on foot clashed with police.
  “We are going to continue with this caravan and with this fight, because this is a question of life or death,” one protester, Ricardo Santos Ortiz, said on  WAPA-TV  Saturday.
  Puerto Rico reopened to tourism July 15, but a day later Gov. Wanda Vázquez Garced reversed course, pushing the opening off for a month and shutting many businesses down again, because coronavirus cases were soaring on the island. That has not stopped tourists from arriving anyway, often flying in from virus hot spots around the U.S. to vacation in one of the few tropical getaways that Americans can visit now.
  About 12,000 people have flown to San Juan from Miami so far in July, five times as many as in April, according to Greg Chin, a spokesperson for Miami International Airport. José Reyes of the Puerto Rico National Guard said in  a televised interview  last week that only about 20 percent of arriving visitors were complying with Puerto Rico’s requirement that they have a negative coronavirus test from the previous 72 hours.
  Puerto Rico shut down early, before any U.S. state, and managed to avoid a major coronavirus outbreak in the spring. But its daily case counts have soared in the last two weeks, and residents say the influx of tourists is to blame for much of the rise.
  Videos of unmasked tourists  dancing in the streets  and  scuffling at the airport  have recently gone viral, and some businesses have  called the police  to deal with tourists who became aggressive when asked to wear a mask.
  Though the island’s hotels are open, much else is shut down, including hotel swimming pools, casinos and tourist attractions; beaches are closed except for solo exercise.
  One of the first large studies of safety and effectiveness of a coronavirus vaccine in the United States began on Monday, according to the National Institutes of Health and the biotech company Moderna, which collaborated to develop the vaccine.
  The first shot was given to a person at 6:45 a.m., Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the nation’s leading infections disease expert, told reporters.
  The study, a Phase 3 clinical trial, will enroll 30,000 healthy people at about 89 sites around the country. Half will receive two shots of the vaccine, 28 days apart, and half will receive two shots of a saltwater placebo. Neither the volunteers nor the medical staff giving the injections will know who is getting the real vaccine.
  Dr. Fauci estimated that the trial’s full enrollment of 30,000 will be completed by the end of the summer, and that results might be available by November. Even earlier results might be possible, he said, but added that he doubted that would be the case.
  A second company, Pfizer, announced Monday afternoon that it would also begin a late-stage study of a coronavirus vaccine, on Tuesday. Pfizer has been working with a German company, BioNTech. Their study will also include 30,000 people, from 39 states in the United States, and from Brazil, Argentina and Germany.
  The government announced last week that it had reached  a $1.95 billion deal to buy 100 million doses of Pfizer’s vaccine  by the year’s end, but only if the trial proves it safe and effective.
  At the news briefing, Dr. Francis Collins, the director of the National Institutes of Health, said that at least three other Phase 3 trials would be starting soon, each needing 30,000 patients. Those trials will involve vaccines made by Novavax, by a collaboration of the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca, and by Johnson & Johnson. All are part of the U.S. government’s Operation Warp Speed. 
  Once volunteers are vaccinated, researchers will be looking for side effects and waiting to see if the vaccine significantly lowers cases of Covid-19. The study will also try to find out if it can prevent severe Covid-19 cases and death; if it can prevent infection entirely, based on lab tests; and if just one shot can prevent the illness.
  Earlier tests of the vaccine  showed that it stimulated a strong immune response, with minor and transient side effects like sore arms, fatigue, achiness and fever. But exactly what type of immune response is needed to prevent the illness is not known, so Phase 3 studies are essential to determine whether a vaccine really works.
  Long Beach Island, a popular summertime destination along the Jersey Shore, is now a different kind of hot spot.
  Thirty-five lifeguards from two boroughs on the barrier island — Surf City and Harvey Cedars — recently  tested positive for the coronavirus , the island’s health department announced on Monday.
  Public health officials said that half of the lifeguards were experiencing mild symptoms and the rest were asymptomatic. None were hospitalized, the officials said.
  The outbreak was traced to two social gatherings that the lifeguards attended on July 12 and July 14, according to the Long Beach Island Health Department, which said it dispatched nurses to investigate cases and issue quarantine orders. 
  “Based on our investigation so far, the workplace was not the source of transmission and practices likely prevented additional cases,” the Health Department said in a news release on Monday. “The youth and young adults should recognize they are not immune to this virus.”
  During a daily briefing on the coronavirus pandemic on Monday, Gov. Phil Murphy of New Jersey mentioned the outbreak on Long Beach Island and said he was troubled by reports of large social gatherings of young people.
  “This is among us, folks,” Mr. Murphy said. “Any of us who thinks we can just put our feet up and relax and let this take its course is not paying attention, particularly congregating inside, in close proximity, poor ventilation, without face coverings. You’re looking for trouble. You’re absolutely looking for trouble, no matter how old you are.”
  In Harvey Cedars, 18 of 73 lifeguards were infected, according to the  borough’s website , which said that its beaches were still open and fully staffed. The lifeguards who tested positive for the virus will not be allowed to return to work until they meet the safety protocols set by the island’s health department, according to a post on the borough’s website. It was not immediately clear what those protocols are.
  When reached by phone on Monday evening, the mayor of Surf City, Francis R. Hodgson Sr., refused to comment. 
  On Long Beach Island, only one lifeguard is allowed in a lifeguard stand under social distancing guidelines that the island’s Health Department said it implemented at the start of the season. Lifeguards must report directly to their stand, and communal activities are barred, health officials said.
  The doctor who supplied the data for two discredited Covid-19 studies had a history of cutting corners and misrepresenting information as he pursued his ambitions, former colleagues say.
  In May, Dr. Sapan Desai published two high-profile studies, including one that found that anti-malaria drugs promoted by President Trump had harmed patients being treated for Covid-19. The study almost instantly disrupted multiple clinical trials amid the pandemic. (The Food and Drug Administration said that hydroxychloroquine has not been shown to be safe and effective and should not be used outside clinical trials.)
  Last month, both studies were retracted by the medical journals that had published them, after researchers around the world suggested the data was dubious. Dr. Desai, who declined to share the raw data even with his co-authors, claimed it was culled from a massive trove acquired by Surgisphere, a business he started during his residency.
  The New York Times interviewed more than two dozen people who have known Dr. Desai over the past two decades. He has cast himself as an ambitious physician, an entrepreneur with an M.B.A. and a prolific researcher published in medical journals.
  But more than a dozen doctors who worked with him during training and residency said they had often found him to be an unreliable physician, who seemed less interested in patient care than in his company and a medical journal he founded.
  “You couldn’t trust what he said,” said Dr. Vanessa Olcese, a former chief resident who worked with Dr. Desai at Duke University Medical Center.
  Sundar Pichai, the chief executive of Google’s parent company, Alphabet, told employees Monday that they would not be expected back in the office until mid-2021.
  The company’s work force, which has been working remotely since March, had previously been told to expect a return to offices in January 2021.
  A Google spokesman said: “To give employees the ability to plan ahead, we are extending our global voluntary work from home option through June 30, 2021, for roles that don’t need to be in the office.”
  Technology companies moved quickly with work-from-home policies, and have been reluctant to bring workers back too early. In May, Facebook said it would allow many employees to work from home permanently.
  In other developments around the United States:
  Across France, thousands of winemakers, famous and obscure, are facing moments of heartbreak.
  The economic crisis, combined with the Trump administration’s 25 percent tax on French wines in a trade war dispute with Europe, has collapsed the wine market.
  So some of the wine for which France is famous will wind up as hand sanitizer.
  The 2020 harvest, blessed by abundant sunshine, is barely a month away. The wine vats must be emptied for the new production. The distillery is the only option.
  “We’re producing more than we can sell,” said Thibaut Specht, a winemaker in Alsace. “We have no choice.”
  Marion Borès’s family business, Domaine Borès, in Reichsfeld, is sending off half its production — 320,000 liters — to a distiller for conversion into alcohol for sanitizer. “It’s like you are saying goodbye to somebody who is very dear to you,” she said.
  After North Korea on Sunday  accused a man of secretly crossing  into the country from South Korea and bringing the virus with him, Seoul went in search of any defectors ​in ​the South who were missing.
  By Monday,  South Korean officials had zeroed in  on a 24-year-old man, identified only by his family name, Kim, who in 2017 swam across the western inter-Korea border to defect to the South. On July 19, he swam back across the border into Kaesong in the North, they said.
  It was not immediately clear why the defector had crossed. The South Korean news agency Yonhap reported that the man had been wanted by the South Korean police for questioning after a rape accusation.
  North Korea said on Sunday that the North Korean man was “suspected to have been infected with the vicious virus” and could be the country’s first case. And the reverse defection prompted the North’s leader, Kim Jong-un, to order a total lockdown of Kaesong, a border city of 300,000, and declare a “maximum” national emergency.
  Until Sunday, North Korea had ​repeatedly ​said that it had no Covid-19 cases. The  claim was questioned by outside experts .
  South Korea officials could not say whether the man might have ​carried the virus across the border.
  In other news from around the world:
 