Our live coverage of the coronavirus pandemic has  moved here. 
  
  
  CNN's "Coronavirus: Facts and Fears" global town hall has ended.
  Vice President Joe Biden, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and Dr. Deborah Birx, the White House coronavirus response coordinator, were among the guests to join CNN’s Anderson Cooper and Dr. Sanjay Gupta.
  Scroll through our posts below to catch up on what was discussed.
  Dr. Priscilla Chan told CNN's town hall that the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative revamped one of its labs in March to serve as a certified coronavirus testing facility. 
  "Within eight days we got up to a capacity of 1,000 tests a day. So that was really awesome to be able to serve our community that way," she said. "As of today, we've now made testing free to all departments of public health in California." 
  Chan and her husband, Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg,  founded CZI in 2015 to  "find new ways to leverage technology, community-driven solutions, and collaboration to accelerate progress in science, education and within our justice and opportunity work."
  
  
  One of Facebook's most important functions during the pandemic is to connect users with "authoritative health information and experts," the social media giant's founder Mark Zuckerberg told CNN's coronavirus town hall.
  Zuckerberg said that Facebook's Covid-19 information center has been directed to more than 2 billion people, 350 million of whom have clicked through.
  Here's what he said with regards to the spread of disinformation -- something Facebook has been criticized for failing to sufficiently combat in the past. 
  
  Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg and his wife, Dr. Priscilla Chan, joined CNN's global town hall to discuss what their foundation, the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, and the social media giant are doing to respond to the coronavirus pandemic.
  Zuckerberg said Facebook employees will return to work in a staggered fashion and shouldn't expect to be back in their offices until at least the end of May. He also said the company will hold off on hosting "any internal or external physical events that have 50 people or more in them" through June of next year.
  
  
  Psychiatrist Dr. Christine Moutier joined CNN's global town hall to discuss tips and advice for people coping with the coronavirus pandemic from a mental health perspective.
  She said it was important that people don't minimize their own grief and sense of loss.
  "Right now there is a wave of grief that so many of us are experiencing," Moutier said. 
  Moutier also advised people who think they have friends, family or colleagues experiencing a loss and don't know how to support them to reach out to them "with expressions of love and caring and support." 
  "We can do that remotely, and don't assume that just because you're not going through the same thing that you can't do that. We all have a role to play with supporting each other right now," she said. 
  The federal Bureau of Prisons has notified Michael Cohen, President Donald Trump’s former personal attorney, that he will be released early from prison due to the coronavirus pandemic, according to people familiar with the matter and his lawyer.
  Cohen is serving a  three-year sentence  at the federal prison camp in Otisville, New York, where 14 inmates and seven staff members at the complex have tested positive for the virus.
  Cohen was scheduled for release in November 2021, but he will be allowed to serve the remainder of his sentence from home confinement, the people said. He will have to undergo a 14-day quarantine at the prison camp before he is released. 
  Some background on Cohen:  He pleaded guilty in 2018 to tax fraud, campaign finance violations and lying to Congress. He admitted to helping facilitate hush money payments to two women who alleged past affairs with Trump. When pleading guilty, Cohen implicated Trump, telling a federal judge that he made the payments “in coordination with and at the direction of” Trump, who prosecutors identified in court filings as “Individual 1.”
  A vocal Trump surrogate:  Cohen had been a vocal surrogate for Trump during his 2016 presidential campaign, often sparring with reporters and appearing on television to support his long-time client. 
  Read more here: 
  
  At least  667,801  cases of coronavirus have been recorded in the United States, including  32,917  deaths, according to Johns Hopkins University's  tally of cases .
  On Thursday, Johns Hopkins reported  29,690  new cases and  2,073  deaths. 
  The totals include cases from all 50 states, the District of Columbia and other US territories, as well as all repatriated cases.
  CNN’s map, using JHU data, refreshes every 15 mins:  
  
  
  Wisconsin-based entrepreneur and game developer Scott Owens asked former Vice President Joe Biden if elected president, would he consider responding to the coronavirus with "New Deal-type" proposals that could reshape the United States -- like universal health care or guaranteeing a basic income for all Americans.
  Here's how Biden responded with respect to health care: 
  Here's what he said about the economy: 
  Watch: 
  
 