The United States on Saturday has passed Italy for the most confirmed covid-19 deaths in the world, with more than 20,000 fatalities, a figure experts have called “an underestimation.” Much-smaller Italy has still lost more people per capita — roughly 31 of every 100,000 people there have been killed by the virus. If the death rate in the U.S. were to match that in Italy, more than 100,000 Americans would die.
  The news comes as Anthony S. Fauci, the nation’s leading infectious disease expert, said he hopes for “a real degree of normality” by November.
  Here are some significant developments:
  Sign up for our coronavirus newsletter  | Mapping the spread of the coronavirus:  Across the U.S.  |  Worldwide  | Has someone close to you died of covid-19?  Share your story with The Post. 
  The Kansas Supreme Court on Saturday struck down a Republican-led effort to allow the continuation of in-person church services across the state, despite the governor’s ban on such gatherings to prevent the spread of the coronavirus — what has been called the “War over Easter” here — as the virus-related death toll continued to rise.
  Gov. Laura Kelly, a Democrat,  expanded  a state stay-at-home order this week to limit church events to 10 people after state public health officials traced coronavirus outbreaks, and three deaths, to four religious gatherings. Kansas has recorded 1,268 confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus and 55 deaths related to the virus, according to the state’s Department of Health and Environment.
  Republican lawmakers on the state’s legislative council revoked Kelly’s order Wednesday — effectively allowing churches to hold regular services on Easter — saying that the order infringed on religious liberty. Kelly then took the matter to court, calling the Republican action “shockingly irresponsible.”
  The court ruled Saturday night that the small, Republican-led legislative council that rescinded Kelly’s order did not have the authority to do so. They had heard arguments Saturday in a historic online session, during which lawyers argued their points before the judges via Zoom videoconferencing.
  Read more .
  The Justice Department will be “monitoring” regulations on religious services during the coronavirus outbreak, spokeswoman Kerri Kupec said in a tweet Saturday evening.
  Kupec’s tweet came on the eve of Easter, and halfway through Passover.
  “While social distancing policies are appropriate during this emergency, they must be applied evenhandedly & not single out religious [organizations]," Kupec tweeted. “Expect action from DOJ next week!”
  Churches across the country are fighting restrictions on in-person services that officials say are necessary to prevent spread of the virus. A federal judge  on Saturday blocked  the mayor of Louisville from forbidding drive-in church services on Easter amid mounting debate.
  Sign up for our Coronavirus Updates newsletter to follow major developments in the pandemic. All stories linked in the newsletter are free to access. 
  Turning 12 amid home isolation orders is hardly any tween’s idea of an exciting birthday, but one Houston boy’s socially-distanced celebration is turning out to be more memorable than anyone could have expected.
  Jody Smith was eager to find an alternative to help his son, Brandon, celebrate his April 11 birthday while still obeying stay-at-home orders, and turned to Twitter for a simple request: Reply to a picture of Brandon holding his hand-drawn map of the world and tell him where they are so the cartographically-inclined 12-year-old could mark it down.
  Responses to Smith’s request came in by the thousands.
  Read more  here .
  On Thursday, Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer (D) extended a statewide “stay at home order” to April 30 while also enacting more restrictions to help limit the spread of covid-19 in a state with one of the highest case totals in the nation.
  The decision quickly  drew criticism  from GOP lawmakers in the state, including Michigan Senate Majority Leader Mike Shirkey (R), who wants some businesses to reopen and on Facebook  blasted  Whitmer’s measures as “DESTROYING OUR HEALTH BY KILLING OUR LIVELIHOODS.” U.S. Rep. Justin Amash (Mich.), an  independent , joined in the criticism Saturday in a lengthy Twitter thread.
  “As a federal official, I do my best to stay out of state politics. But I have a constitutional duty to ensure states don’t trample on the rights of the people,” Amash wrote. 
  Amash argued that “sensible instructions” to socially distance, wear masks and stay at home are enough to halt the spread of the coronavirus. But he wrote that there is “no compelling case for banning bicycle repair shops or landscaping services, or for prohibiting open retailers from selling items related to home and garden maintenance.”
  He further argued that people will push back on these “extraordinary restrictions on liberty,” and that by not allowing people in stores, Whitmer may inadvertently force people to stand close together in lines, thus violating best practices for social distancing.
  Similar debates are playing out around the country as officials grapple with how and when to ease off restrictions that have devastated the economy and led to millions filing for unemployment each week.
  Announcing her new statewide measures in a news conference Thursday, Whitmer said that most Michiganders “are doing their part by staying home and staying safe."
  “That’s good, but we must keep it up,” she said. “When we do, we can save lives and shorten the amount of time we’re working through this crisis.”
  As of Saturday afternoon, Michigan’s confirmed coronavirus cases were nearing 24,000, and the death toll was up to 1,392. Detroit has been hit especially hard.
  On Saturday,  the Detroit Free Press reported  that five Kroger employees have died of the coronavirus in the Detroit metro area. 
  It was supposed to be the spring that launched Sophia Kianni’s climate career.
  She had eight speaking engagements lined up at big-name universities — Stanford, Princeton and Duke. She had a 35-minute presentation prepared, explaining how concern for family in polluted Iran inspired her climate activism. She even had outfits: a favorite was the knee-length white skirt, paired with a green sweater and matching white blazer.
  Then came the virus: “Within a week, basically every single thing I had planned for got canceled,” said Kianni, 18. She is among thousands of teenagers who built a climate movement around the act of skipping school on Fridays and parading through streets in a highly visible show of rage — activities impossible in the era of coronavirus.
  Read more  here .
  The coronavirus is killing about 1 in 10 hospitalized middle-aged patients and 4 in 10 older than 85 in the United States, and is particularly lethal to men even when taking into account common chronic disease that exacerbate risk, according to previously unpublished data from a company that aggregates real-time patient data from 1,000 hospitals and 180,000 health care providers.
  Allscripts, through its subsidiary CarePort Health, released the data collected from multiple electronic health record companies across the nation.
  This swath of data largely echoes federal findings. One difference: CarePort found that, after adjusting the estimated mortality rate to take age into account, chronic kidney disease appears to correspond to a 2.5-times increase in the risk of death among hospitalized patients.
  Read more  here .
  The legal tug-of-war between Texas abortion providers and the state’s leaders who want to ban the procedure during the  coronavirus  pandemic landed at the U.S. Supreme Court on Saturday night.
  Twice a Texas district judge has agreed with the providers, and twice a panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 5th Circuit has intervened. In  its ruling Friday , the panel said on a 2-to-1 vote that only women who might not be able to receive an abortion by the state’s 22-week limit could get a waiver.
  Abortion providers, represented by Planned Parenthood and the Center for Reproductive Rights, among others, said the Supreme Court’s intervention “is urgently needed.” 
  Read more  here .
  The novel  coronavirus ’s insuperable spread across the globe has caused seismic disruptions to everyday life. Daily activities now rarely extend beyond the confines of one’s home. Social distancing often feels  more akin to social isolation .
  But with fewer distractions and increased downtime, some have found space to start new projects or complete those long forgotten.
  When  The Washington Post  asked readers how they’ve used their time under quarantine or stay-at-home orders, more than 250 people responded with stories about learning to play instruments, trying culinary techniques and tackling other creative endeavors.
  Read more  here .
  A federal judge has blocked Louisville Mayor Greg Fischer from forbidding drive-in church services on Easter to slow the spread of the coronavirus, as the fates of Sunday gatherings become political flash points around the country.
  “An American mayor criminalized the communal celebration of Easter,” U.S. District Judge Justin Walker wrote  in a temporary restraining order  issued Saturday. “That sentence is one that this Court never expected to see outside the pages of a dystopian novel, or perhaps the pages of The Onion. … The Mayor’s decision is stunning. And it is, ‘beyond all reason,’ unconstitutional.” 
  Louisville’s On Fire Christian Church  sued Fischer and the city Friday , arguing that the mayor violated their constitutional rights when he said he would not allow drive-in church services.
  Walker’s order prevents the city from “enforcing; attempting to enforce; threatening to enforce; or otherwise requiring compliance with any prohibition on drive-in church services at On Fire,” according to court documents.
  Fischer said in a statement Saturday that he was disappointed the city was not given the chance to explain its position, adding that the city “never issued a formal ‘ban’ on drive in services.” 
  Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.)  tweeted  Saturday that he was “grateful for this strong, eloquent ruling defending Kentuckians’ religious liberty from Judge Justin Walker. … Of course church parking lots cannot be singled out with unfair standards that differ from other establishments.” 
  On Friday, McConnell said prohibiting Christian churches from holding drive-in services infringed on people’s right to exercise their religion. He said it was unfair that residents are still permitted to gather in parking lots at grocery stores and other retail operations.
  Walker, who  once clerked  for Supreme Court Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh and now-retired Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, just became the youngest nominee to the D.C. Circuit since 1983.
  Walker’s order comes after Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear (D) urged churchgoers Friday to not attend Easter Sunday services in any fashion — and said those who go to mass gatherings will be ordered to self-quarantine in their homes for 14 days. He also said Kentucky will record license plates at large gatherings this weekend to follow up about the quarantines.
  Manuel Bernal could have sought a different assignment once the coronavirus pandemic hit Advocate Christ Medical Center, one of the busiest trauma hospitals serving Chicago’s South Side. His supervisor said she would not ask him to put his life on the line as an emergency medicine physician still in training.
  Bernal already felt his future was in jeopardy as one of more than 640,000 undocumented immigrants known as “dreamers,” who could lose their work permits if the U.S. Supreme Court allows the Trump administration to end an Obama-era program that protects them from deportation.
  But the 29-year-old resident dove into emergency room work. Bernal is among an estimated 29,000 health-care workers enrolled in the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, working on the front lines of the battle against coronavirus, even as their own futures in this country hang by a thread.
  Read more  here .
  BRUSSELS — European workers are facing the same punishing reality as those in the United States: lockdowns, business closures and huge uncertainties about how much the pandemic will gut the economy.
  But there are also big differences. Worker-protection measures have kicked in around the European Union to help safeguard jobs and cover lost wages. In the United States, meanwhile, unemployment figures continue to tick higher and could rival those of the Great Depression.
  Germany is an example of government intervention to avoid layoffs. The government pays up to two-thirds of normal salary to an employee, while the employer pays little or nothing. Once the employer is ready to pay full wages again, everything returns to normal — there are no layoffs. The idea is for companies not to lose the expertise and be in a better position when economic conditions turn around. Many European countries have adopted the German model.
  Read more  here. 
  Armen Henderson, a University of Miami Health System doctor who has been testing and helping homeless people during the coronavirus pandemic, was  handcuffed by police Friday  while he was putting old boxes on the curb for pickup, according a report from the Miami Herald. 
  Video of the incident, captured by Henderson’s surveillance footage from outside his home, quickly circulated on social media and led Miami Police Chief Jorge Colina to  address the incident in a video  Saturday afternoon. Colina said the department will be investigating Henderson’s detainment by a City of Miami sergeant for offloading his van outside his own home.
  “Many of the questions that have been asked are, ‘Why did this encounter occur?’ ” Colina says in the video. “We have had a litany of complaints pertaining to illegal dumping … there is a cargo van parked in front of that home where there appears to be trash that is being unloaded. That is the genesis of the stop.” 
  Colina did not go into detail about what occurred between the officer and Henderson leading up to his detention. Henderson, who is African American,  told the Miami Herald  on Friday that the police officer told him he was patrolling the area after reports that people were dumping trash. After Henderson told the officer he was unloading his van and did not show his ID, Henderson said, he was put in handcuffs.
  As of Saturday morning, Florida had more than 18,000 confirmed cases of the coronavirus and more than 400 deaths, according to the state Department of Health.
  JERUSALEM — The arrival of coronavirus has brought no pause in tensions between Israelis and Palestinians in the eastern neighborhoods of this contested city, where both sides of the conflict accuse the other of using the pandemic to advance their political purposes.
  Some Palestinians complain that Israeli officials, who provide health and police services in East Jerusalem, have been slow to offer virus testing and Arabic-language information in this part of the city and, in some cases, have thwarted the Arabs’ own efforts to respond to the outbreak.
  Israeli officials, in turn, contend the Palestinian Authority, which governs the adjacent West Bank, is exploiting the outbreak to meddle in Jerusalem’s Arab neighborhoods.
  Read more  here .
  Celebrity lawyer Michael Avenatti, who was convicted of  trying to extort Nike , has been granted temporary freedom from a federal detention center in New York City by a U.S. judge in California.
  Avenatti’s lawyers have been pushing for his release amid the coronavirus pandemic since last month, and late Friday, U.S. District Judge James Selna granted the request for up to 90 days. Avenatti, who represented adult film actress Stormy Daniels in  a scandal-ridden legal battle against President Trump , must first quarantine for 14 days at a Federal Bureau of Prisons facility to ensure he does not have symptoms of the coronavirus. Then he can stay at the Venice, Calif., home of his friend Jay Manheimer while wearing an electronic monitoring bracelet and having no Internet access.
  Bond was set at $1 million.
  Avenatti was found guilty in February of demanding $25 million from Nike while threatening to expose alleged misconduct within the company.
  Correction:  An earlier version of this story said Michael Avenatti was being held in a New York City jail.  
 