New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo (D)  confirmed  the state’s first case of coronavirus Sunday night, announcing that a woman in her late 30s contracted the virus after traveling to Iran. President Trump on Saturday extended a travel ban on Iran to apply to any foreign nationals who had been in that country over the past 14 days.
  Also on Sunday, Washington state reported its  second death in King County , which is also the second death in the United States.
  The coronavirus has probably been  spreading undetected for about six weeks  in Washington state, where the first U.S. death was reported this weekend, according to new research. A genetic analysis suggests that the cases are linked through community transmission and that the virus is likely to have been spreading undetected for weeks, with hundreds of infections possible in the state.
  Officials in the Seattle area are monitoring a possible outbreak at a long-term nursing home. The elderly are considered especially vulnerable to infection. One patient is a health-care worker in her 40s who was in satisfactory condition, according to state health officials. The other, a resident in her 70s, is in serious condition.
  The global death toll  has surpassed 3,000  on four continents. The first U.S. death, in Washington state, was a man in his 50s with underlying health conditions, officials said. The patient had no recent travel history or contact with people known to be infected, officials said.
  Here are the latest developments:
  Likely cases of the novel coronavirus spread further across the East Coast on Sunday night, as health officials in Florida announced two probable cases of covid-19 and Rhode Island reported a second presumed patient — up from just one earlier in the afternoon.
  On Florida’s Gulf Coast, two likely cases of covid-19 prompted the office of Gov. Ron DeSantis (R) to issue a public health emergency. Both adults are in isolation, the Florida Department of Health  said  in a statement.
  One of the patients resides in Hillsborough County, which includes Tampa, and has a history of travel to Italy, which has recorded more than 1,500 infections.
  The other person, in neighboring Manatee County, appears to have contracted the virus through community spread. Florida health officials said this patient had not been to any countries where travel has been restricted by the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , including China, Iran, South Korea and Italy.
  In Rhode Island, officials  reported  a case of a teenager who tested positive for covid-19. An adult in her 30s has also been tested, and both people are at home experiencing mild symptoms, the state’s Department of Health said.
  Both individuals had traveled to Europe in mid-February alongside Rhode Island’s first likely case of coronavirus, a man in his 40s who had been chaperoning a Catholic preparatory school’s trip to Italy, France and Spain. The school, Saint Raphael Academy in Pawtucket, will be closed this week.
  The adult in her 30s whose tests are still pending works at Achievement First Academy, which has Providence and Cranston campuses, both of which will be closed for three days this week. Nearly 40 people went on the trip to Europe, and all will be under quarantine for two weeks with public health supervision, officials said.
  Any presumptive positive cases must be confirmed by the CDC, Rhode Island health officials  said  earlier Sunday.
  A second person in the United States has died of the novel coronavirus, health officials in Washington state confirmed Sunday, as they announced new cases in the Seattle area. The news comes one day after officials in the state confirmed the first U.S. death, a man in his 50s with underlying health conditions. Both deaths occurred in King County.
  A Seattle-area man in his 70s who also had underlying health conditions died Saturday after being hospitalized at EvergreenHealth, Seattle and King County Public Health officials said in a statement Sunday.
  The man’s death was among four new confirmed cases of covid-19 in King County, bringing the local total of confirmed cases to 10. All four patients in the newest confirmed cases, including the death, were residents of Lifecare, a nursing facility in Kirkland, Wash., that is associated with two other  previously confirmed cases in the area .
  All three of the surviving patients in the newest confirmed cases range in age from their 70s to 90s, have underlying health conditions and are in critical condition, health officials said. Lifecare said that it is not uncommon for residents to exhibit cold and flulike symptoms this time of year and that they may be hospitalized as a precaution so they can be tested for covid-19.
  As a precaution, all visits to the facility from families, volunteers or vendors are not allowed, the facility said in a  statement  Saturday.
  Gov. Jay Inslee (D)  declared  a state of emergency Saturday as  more than 231 Washington residents remain under public health supervision . The state has 13 confirmed coronavirus cases overall, with the majority in King County.
  Officials with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  are retesting a patient  they discharged from isolation at a Texas medical facility after the person spent several hours in the general public and later tested positive for the novel coronavirus.
  The patient, who had been quarantined for weeks after returning from China’s Wuhan province, tested negative for the virus twice and was not showing any symptoms while being quarantined at the Texas Center for Infectious Disease in San Antonio.
  The CDC released the person to a local hotel on Saturday but had to retrieve the person hours later when a third test sample was “determined to be weakly positive,” according to a CDC news release. “Out of an abundance of caution, CDC decided to bring the individual back into isolation.” 
  Local health officials, including the  San Antonio Metro Health District , are now tracing the patient’s steps and interactions.
  The incident realized the worst fears of Bexar County and San Antonio city officials, who raised concerns with federal officials after the first flights from China and the Diamond Princess cruise ship landed at Lackland Air Force Base early last month and patients were taken to area hospitals.
  San Antonio Mayor Ron Nirenberg called the release of the coronavirus patient “unacceptable,” but he added that the exposure risk remains low for city and county residents.
  “This is exactly why we have been asking federal officials to accept the guidance of our medical community,” he said in a statement.
  The remaining passengers of the cruise ship still in quarantine are expected to be released Monday.
  Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff, who wrote letters with the mayor outlining their worries to federal officials, said additional protocols are needed to lower the risk of local transmission from the military and state facilities being used to isolate patients.
  “To date, no response or even acknowledgment of our concerns has been made,” he said in a statement on Saturday.
  The CDC said it is dealing with many unknowns and making decisions on a “case-by-case basis using the best available science at the time.” 
  New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo (D)  confirmed  the state’s first case of coronavirus Sunday night, announcing that a woman in her late 30s contracted the virus after traveling to Iran. The announcement comes just one day after President Trump extended a travel ban on Iran to apply to any foreign nationals who had been in that country over the past 14 days.
  Cuomo assured residents in a statement that the overall risk in New York state remains low and sought to head off any panic as he noted that state officials have been anticipating cases.
  “There is no cause for surprise — this was expected,” Cuomo said. “As I said from the beginning, it was a matter of when, not if, there would be a positive case of novel coronavirus in New York.”
  He said the patient did not show severe symptoms and is recovering in isolation at home.
  New York is the 10th state to confirm a case of the coronavirus. Authorities announced  the first U.S. death from covid-19  on Feb. 29, in King County, Wash.
  Last week, the Dow Jones industrial average  plunged 12.4 percent, or 3,583 points , as investors’ fears and uncertainty about the potential economic fallout from the coronavirus built to a crescendo.
  There’s growing concern that the steep market losses and mounting death toll from the outbreak will trigger broader alarm, prompting American consumers to rein in their spending, beyond just canceling vacations and cruises. For a decade, consumer spending propped up not just the U.S. economy but the global economy, keeping factories around the world humming and giving U.S. business owners optimism.
  But the momentum of fear is a powerful force — in the markets and the broader economy. About  half of Americans  have money invested in the stock market, often in a retirement plan that baby boomers are now tapping, and even those without market exposure are often influenced by big drops.
  Coronavirus has also caused significant supply-chain disruptions affecting  toys, medical equipment, auto parts and smartphones  from China, none of which will be easy to smooth out, even if the virus ebbs within a month or two. The twin blows to consumer confidence and supply chains have significantly raised the chance of a recession, according to economists.
  “The odds of a recession are roughly a coin toss, and that’s exceptionally high,” said Edward Al-Hussainy, an analyst at Columbia Threadneedle Investments. “Conferences are getting canceled. Corporations are asking people to work from home. Schools are getting closed. That is a massive hit to demand."
  Read the full report. 
  A Scottish patient who recently traveled from northern Italy has tested positive for covid-19, marking Scotland’s first confirmed case of the novel coronavirus,  Scottish health officials announced late Sunday.  The patient, who has been hospitalized and put into isolation, brings the total number of reported coronavirus cases in the United Kingdom to 36,  according to a tally by the BBC.  
  It’s unclear how long the patient has been back from northern Italy — the “red zone” of the country’s outbreak — or whom they may have come into contact with. The Scottish government would only disclose that the patient resided in the central Scottish region of Tayside and that officials were tracing the patient’s contact history since their return.
  Scottish Chief Medical Officer Catherine Calderwood said in a statement Sunday that officials have anticipated mounting a response since the outbreak began in Wuhan, China, and that “Scotland is well equipped to deal with infections of this kind." 
  Since last Monday, Wales,  Northern Ireland  and the Republic of Ireland have each confirmed their country’s first cases of the coronavirus. The infection in the Welsh patient, whose case was confirmed Feb. 24, stemmed from recent travel to northern Italy.
  Britain, which already had more than a dozen confirmed coronavirus cases,  reported 13 new cases on Sunday,  which included the second patient to test positive who did not travel outside the country, fueling concerns that the virus has started to circulate locally.
  The United Kingdom is still in the “containment phase” of the outbreak, British Health Secretary Matt Hancock  said Sunday.  Containment is the United Kingdom’s first step in a four-phase plan to combat the virus’s spread.
  ROME — Italy’s government on Sunday placed new restrictions on certain events in several northern regions in its latest effort to contain the spread of the coronavirus.
  But the measures were fairly modest and seemed tailored to allow public life to continue in a quieter form.
  Restaurants and bars are allowed to remain open, for instance, so long as they can assure that customers remain roughly three feet apart from one another. Worship ceremonies can go forward, as well, provided they can give the same assurance. Northern Italy’s popular ski destinations can remain open — but the operator must take steps to keep the facilities well below capacity.
  Even soccer matches can continue, provided they are held behind closed doors.
  Large or typically crowded events, including in discos and at movie theaters, are prohibited, though. The measures, signed by Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte, apply to three regions — Emilia-Romagna, Veneto and Lombardy — and small parts of two others. They will be in place for at least a week. Lombardy is the apparent epicenter of Italy’s coronavirus outbreak, with more than half of the country’s 1,577 cases.
  Italy also has sealed off 11 towns, all in the north, heavily restricting people from entering and exiting. Those measures remain in place.
  CAIRO — Qatar on Sunday banned all visitors, except its own citizens, flying in from Egypt through intermediate cities, even as authorities in Egypt say only one case of coronavirus has been detected there.
  “As a public health measure, the State of Qatar has imposed a temporary entrance restriction to its territories on all those who are coming from Egypt through intermediary points,” Qatar’s state news agency tweeted, adding that the measure was taken to prevent the “spread” of the novel coronavirus.
  Since November 2017, there have been no direct flights between Egypt and Qatar because of a regional diplomatic crisis. All passengers from Egypt, which has a population of more than 100 million, have to travel to intermediate airports to reach Qatar.
  The measure by Qatar underscores growing questions surrounding Egypt’s testing and reporting of coronavirus cases. On Sunday, a Health Ministry spokesman denied reports of two new cases being transferred to a hospital and quarantined in northern Egypt, according to Ahram Online, a pro-government newspaper.
  The denial came a day after Health Minister Hala Zayed said there was a “high probability” that Egypt will see more cases. On Sunday, Zayed traveled to China to offer what she described to reporters as “a message of support” from President Abdel Fatah al-Sissi to the Chinese government.
  At a news conference, she said Egypt had tested 1,443 people but that only one — a Chinese citizen, according to local media reports — was infected. That person, identified by Egyptian health authorities last month, tested negative a few days later and was discharged from the hospital.
  French authorities said last week that six travelers returning from Egypt tested positive for the virus, prompting Egypt to test the staff at the sites the travelers visited.
  In the Egyptian capital, Cairo, and in other cities, rumors are spreading about possible additional coronavirus cases, prompting lawmakers on Friday to deny them and promise full transparency in addressing the epidemic.
  As coronavirus spreads to new countries around the world, in places where a kiss on the cheek is a customary greeting, people are finding new ways to say hello.
  In France and Italy, where a smooch is a typical reception, officials have told residents to limit their physical contact to slow the spread of the virus.
  French Health Minister Olivier Véran had said people should merely avoid shaking hands, but on Saturday he advised the French also to cut back on “la bise,” the custom of kissing or air-kissing each other’s cheeks, the Associated Press  reported .
  There are about 100 confirmed cases in France.
  In Italy, where more than 1,100 people are infected, the special commissioner for the coronavirus response, Angelo Borrelli, suggested the virus’s swift spread may be due to Italians’ demonstrative nature.
  “We have a collective social life that is very florid, very expansive. We have lots of contact, we shake hands, we kiss each other, we hug each other,” Borrelli said, according to the AP. “Maybe it is better in this period not to shake hands, and do not have too much contact, and try to be a bit less expansive, which is different from how I am.”
  At Fashion Week in Milan, attendees quit cheek kissing in favor of other gestures, including tapping fingertips, which one fashionista dubbed, “the new coronavirus kiss,” the AP reported.
  Sharmine Narwani, a political analyst focused on the Middle East,  tweeted  a video from Iran of men tapping feet as a greeting.
  “No kissing, no hand shaking, no hugs,” Narwani wrote.
  Even in the United States, Miami Mayor Carlos A. Gimenez  told reporters Thursday  that residents should nod instead of kissing or shaking hands.
  Not everyone has taken those warnings to heart. Time reporter Vera Bergengruen  tweeted  from Miami International Airport two women pulling back face masks to kiss cheeks.
  Face masks do not prevent the wearers from getting sick, and only N95 masks, if fitted properly, filter airborne particles, The Post previously  reported .
  Health officials reported two new confirmed cases of covid-19 in King County, Washington on Sunday, raising the county’s total number of novel coronavirus cases to six and the state’s caseload to eight. Those numbers are expected to rise in the wake of the CDC’s decision to widen testing guidelines last week.
  The new patients are men in their 60s with underlying health conditions. One man is hospitalized in critical but stable condition at Valley Medical Center in Renton. The other man is in critical condition at Virginia Mason Medical Center in Seattle.
  A spokesperson with the county health department told The Washington Post that officials have confirmed at least one of the cases is not connected to the possible coronavirus outbreak at the Life Care Center in Kirkland, Wash., where more than 50 residents and staff are reportedly ill with symptoms. 
  All six King County cases have been confirmed in the last three days. Officials said that at least two are connected to the Life Care facility; one is a health-care worker in her 40s who was in satisfactory condition, and the other is a resident in her 70s who was in serious condition as of Saturday afternoon. The first coronavirus death was also reported in King County over the weekend, a man in his 50s with underlying health issues and was admitted to EvergreenHealth with severe respiratory symptoms.
  After the CDC changed its testing guidelines, EvergreenHealth opted to screen two of its most critically ill patients — the man in his 50s who died and the LifeCare resident — Dr. Frank Riedo said at a news conference. The tests were taken on Thursday and confirmed on Saturday, Riedo said.
  The man who died and the nursing home resident did not have any known contact with other COVID-19 patients, nor had they traveled outside the U.S., raising concerns about increasing cases of community transmission of the infection.
  The leader of the messianic church at the heart of South Korea’s outbreak faces charges of murder and other criminal counts,  according to the BBC .
  The Seoul city government filed a legal complaint that alleges Lee Man-hee, founder of the Shincheonji Church, and 11 others submitted false documents and impeded medical officials, the Korea Times  reported , as they raced to understand how the virus exploded among the congregants.
  More than half of confirmed cases in the country, which eclipsed 3,700 on Sunday, have been traced to church members at a regional branch, officials have said, with more than 20 deaths. “It was like they sprayed the virus within the church,” a city official in Daegu, where the church outbreak began,  told the Wall Street Journal .
  Followers of the Shincheonji Church of Jesus, formally known as the Temple of the Tabernacle of the Testimony, believe Lee is the second coming of Jesus. They  traverse the country  to recruit outsiders, complicating efforts to contain the virus.
  The church said it was victimized by “stigmatization, hatred and slander” and was cooperating with government officials, Reuters  reported .
  South Korean officials temporarily shut down Shincheonji on Feb. 23 in an effort to curb the outbreak.
  One month since the first confirmed coronavirus case aboard the Diamond Princess was reported, the last group of about 130 crew members vacated the ship Sunday, the Associated Press  reported .
  Passengers disembarked Feb. 20. More than 700 of the ship’s passengers and crew members became infected after the boat was controversially quarantined for nearly two weeks in the Japanese port of Yokohama, near Tokyo. Experts have said that the decision allowed the virus to spread through the ship.
  Among more than 300 U.S. residents who were flown home from the ship on two chartered flights, 14 were confirmed to be infected but were still allowed to travel back with noninfected passengers, The Washington Post  reported. 
  One of the infected passengers died this weekend in Australia, the country’s first coronavirus death, The Washington Post previously  reported .
  The now-empty ship will be sterilized and prepared for its next voyage, Japanese Health Minister Katsunobu Kato said at a news conference. He did not provide a timeline.
  The crew members who disembarked Sunday will be quarantined for 14 days before they can return to their home countries, Japanese media  reported .
  The first presumptive positive case of the novel coronavirus in Rhode Island was announced Sunday by the state’s Health Department.
  The patient is in his 40s and traveled to Europe in mid-February, Gov. Gina Raimondo (D) and Health Director Nicole Alexander-Scott said at a news conference. The patient is being treated in a hospital after officials identified the case Saturday.
  He had limited travel in Rhode Island since returning from Italy, France and Spain and had not returned to work since being abroad, according to the Health Department. Alexander-Scott said he may have come into close contact with about 40 people, whom the department reached out to and who are quarantined and self-monitoring for symptoms for 14 days.
  Saint Raphael Academy, a Catholic preparatory school in Pawtucket,  said in a statement  that the patient is “a member of our community” who was traveling with students and chaperones in Europe. The school will close Monday and Tuesday. 
  Presumptive positive cases must be confirmed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, but that “might change in the coming days,” according to the state Health Department. Rhode Island had expedited the final steps of implementation to run the test that identified this case.
  Rhode Island had earlier announced that about two dozen people were being monitored . On Sunday, Alexander-Scott said the patient was not among them.
  While the state has enough tests, it is testing only those people who are exhibiting symptoms, she said.
  Raimondo said she had not been in touch with Vice President Pence, who was tapped to oversee the federal government’s response to the coronavirus, but that her office was in communication with the White House. She said she also spoke with the state’s congressional delegation about receiving federal support.
  “It is my sincere hope that the federal government will provide additional resources for states that are going to have to deal with coronavirus,” the governor said.
  After U.S. officials upgraded travel advisories over the weekend and urged Americans to avoid nonessential travel to Italy, two U.S. airlines suspended daily flights to Milan.
  Delta announced Sunday  that it is temporarily stopping service from New York’s JFK International Airport to Milan after Tuesday. The flights will resume May 1. American Airlines  declared a similar stoppage  Saturday, saying flights between Milan and airports in Miami and New York will be postponed through April 25.
  Both airlines are offering customers an opportunity to rebook their flights or get a full refund.
  Milan, a global fashion hub, is the capital of Lombardy, one of two regions in the northern part of Italy that the U.S. State Department has told Americans to avoid. In Lombardy and Veneto, the coronavirus is spreading rapidly, and some residents are living in quarantine zones.
  American, Delta and United Airlines have  previously announced flight cancellations  involving other high-risk countries as global health and government officials scramble to prevent the spread of the novel virus.
  Read more about other canceled flight paths here.  
 