This briefing has ended.  Read our global live coverage on the coronavirus pandemic here .
  A top White House adviser starkly warned Trump administration officials in late January that the coronavirus crisis could cost the United States trillions of dollars and put millions of Americans at risk of illness or death.
  The warning, written in a memo by Peter Navarro, President Trump’s trade adviser, is the highest-level alert known to have circulated inside the West Wing as the administration was taking its first substantive steps to confront a crisis that had already consumed China’s leaders and would go on to upend life in Europe and the United States.
  “The lack of immune protection or an existing cure or vaccine would leave Americans defenseless in the case of a full-blown coronavirus outbreak on U.S. soil,” Mr. Navarro’s memo said. “This lack of protection elevates the risk of the coronavirus evolving into a full-blown pandemic, imperiling the lives of millions of Americans.”
  Dated Jan. 29, it came during a period when Mr. Trump was playing down the risks to the United States, and he would later go on to say that no one could have predicted such a devastating outcome.
  Mr. Navarro said in the memo that the administration faced a choice about how aggressive to be in containing an outbreak, saying the human and economic costs would be relatively low if it turned out to be a problem along the lines of a seasonal flu.
  But he went on to emphasize that the “risk of a worst-case pandemic scenario should not be overlooked” given the information coming from China.
  In one worst-case scenario cited in the memo, more than a half-million Americans could die.
  Vice President Mike Pence and his team of medical experts struck a cautiously optimistic tone on Monday night, saying California and Washington had seen “remarkable progress” for slowing the spread of the virus by following guidelines to stay at home and avoid congregating in groups.
  And they expressed hope that social distancing efforts were beginning to work.
  “That’s a great tribute to the people of both of those states, and to all of their dedicated health care workers,” Mr. Pence said. “We’re beginning to see a leveling.”
  “It only becomes a trend if every one of us continues to take ownership,” Mr. Pence added.
  Dr. Deborah Birx, who is leading the administration’s coronavirus response efforts, cautioned that the most recent data on the virus’ spread was not as accurate as experts would like it to be. She said at least one county in the New York area had seen a significant surge in cases over the weekend, and that officials were concerned with cases rising throughout Louisiana, Illinois and the Washington, D.C., area.
  But Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, joined the optimistic tone. Dr. Fauci, who has been rooted in explaining the virus through a scientific lens — especially when the president is talking — said that the number of hospital admissions and intubations in New York had seemed to level off.
  “So we just got to realize this is an indication, despite all the suffering and the death that has occurred,” Dr. Fauci said, “that what we have been doing has been working.” 
  He added that he still would be reluctant to declare premature victory over a virus whose spread has been unpredictable.
  A point of contention between Dr. Fauci and Mr. Trump has been the president’s willingness to reopen the country despite overwhelming scientific evidence that the country is not yet in the clear.
  Prime Minister Boris Johnson was moved into intensive care on Monday,  a worrisome turn  in his 10-day battle with the coronavirus and the starkest evidence yet of how the virus has threatened the British political establishment and thrown its new government into upheaval.
  The government said the decision was a precaution and that the prime minister had been in good spirits earlier in the day. But with Mr. Johnson’s aides releasing few details about his condition, the nation kept a tense vigil on Monday night, hoping for the best and experiencing, together, the frightening mysteries of this disease.
  In a sign of how grave the situation had become, Downing Street said in a statement on Monday that Mr. Johnson had asked the foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, to deputize for him “where necessary.” The pound fell against the dollar after investors reacted to the news.
  After noting earlier in the day that the prime minister was still getting official papers, Mr. Johnson’s aides said he had been moved to the intensive care unit in case he needed a ventilator to help his recovery. Not every patient in critical care is ventilated, medical experts said, but many are — or are at least given oxygen. Mr. Johnson remains conscious, officials said.
  For Mr. Johnson, 55, it was an especially cruel reversal. Just four months ago, he engineered the greatest Conservative Party victory since Margaret Thatcher in 1987, delivered his promise to take Britain out of the European Union, and set in motion an ambitious economic program to transform his divided country.
  Now, Mr. Johnson, a political phenomenon whose career has always had a quicksilver quality, finds himself in a debilitating battle after contracting a virus he initially viewed with characteristic nonchalance.
  For Britain, which had so recently emerged from three-and-half years of paralysis and polarization over Brexit, Mr. Johnson’s illness plunges the country back into the uncertainty Britons thought they had left behind.
  
  President Trump, at his coronavirus task force briefing, again said the number of coronavirus tests in the United States now exceeds that in other countries, wrongly suggesting that the country is doing a better job of monitoring the spread of the disease than other nations.
  Though it is true that the total number of tests in the United States has now edged higher than the number in South Korea last week, America has a much larger population than that country.  On a per-capita basis, the United States has tested far fewer people than several other countries .
  There is also substantial local variation in the country, with tests even harder to obtain, on average, in some parts of the country than others.
  Even as new and faster tests become available, lengthy delays to obtain results continue and test materials are running low, compounding the crises hospitals are facing.
  Private companies like Quest and LabCorp are now running thousands of tests a day. But demand for testing has overwhelmed many labs and testing sites. 
  Doctors and officials around the country say that lengthy delays in getting results have persisted and that persistent uneven access to tests has prolonged rationing and hampered patient care. In addition,  swabs and chemicals needed  to run the tests are in short supply in many of the nation’s hot zones.
  Wisconsin voters will face a choice between protecting their health and exercising their civic duty on Tuesday after state Republican leaders, backed up by a conservative majority on the state’s Supreme Court, rebuffed the Democratic governor’s attempt to postpone in-person voting in their presidential primary and local elections. The political and legal skirmishing throughout Monday was only the first round of an expected national fight over voting rights in the year of Covid-19.
  The Republicans’ success came at the end of a day that left anxious voters whipsawed between competing claims from Gov. Tony Evers and his opponents in the G.O.P.-controlled State Legislature over whether Tuesday’s election would proceed as planned. It rattled democracy in a key battleground state already shaken by a fast-growing number of cases of the coronavirus.
  The governor had issued an executive order postponing in-person voting and extending to June the deadline for absentee ballots. But Republican leaders succeeded in getting the state’s top court to stay the decree.
  And in a decision late Monday capping the election-eve chaos, the U.S. Supreme Court’s conservative-leaning majority dealt its own blow to Wisconsin Democrats. In a 5-4 vote, the majority ruled against their attempt to extend the deadline for absentee voting in Tuesday’s elections, saying such a change “fundamentally alters the nature of the election.” The court’s four liberal members dissented, with Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg writing that “the court’s order, I fear, will result in massive disenfranchisement.”
  Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California told House Democrats on Monday that the next government aid package to counter the economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic will likely top $1 trillion, building off a more than $2 trillion stimulus plan enacted last month.
  During a private conference call, Ms. Pelosi told rank-and-file members that the next measure would include additional funds for food assistance programs, direct payments to American families and more funds for a newly established loan program for small businesses, according to a person familiar with the discussion, but unauthorized to disclose it publicly. 
  The stimulus law provided for payments of $1,200 payments to those making less than $75,000, with smaller checks going to those who made less than $99,000. The next bill, which would constitute a fourth phase of government help on the heels of three sweeping laws enacted over the last month, is also likely to include additional funds for state and local governments and hospitals, Ms. Pelosi told Democrats.
  Leaders in both parties have pivoted in recent days toward the idea of taking quick action on a fourth assistance package, spurred on by jobless figures that have underscored the depth of the economic crisis brought on by the novel coronavirus.
  The speaker, who initially pushed for a multi-trillion-dollar infrastructure proposal to be included in the next phase of coronavirus aid, has dropped the idea in the near term, instead saying the focus should be on improving upon the stimulus measure. And Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, who originally resisted the idea of swiftly considering a fourth aid measure, has pivoted as well, saying such a package will be needed. 
  Janet Yellen, the former chairwoman of the Federal Reserve, who joined the call with Democratic lawmakers, described in grim terms the toll the crisis was taking on the American economy.
  It is unclear how quickly a package will come together, with both chambers scattered across the country until at least April 20. But Ms. Pelosi has repeatedly told her caucus that she hopes to have legislation on the House floor by the end of the month.
  As the number of new deaths held relatively steady in New York, where the toll hovered around 600 on both Sunday and Monday, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo suggested Monday that the state’s sharply rising curve of infections and deaths have started to stabilize.
  But Mr. Cuomo warned that glimmers of hope could continue only if New Yorkers maintain discipline and suppress an impulse to gather outdoors.
  “We get reckless,” Mr. Cuomo said at his daily news briefing, “you will see these numbers go up again.”
  New York City remains the center of the nation’s outbreak, with harrowing  scenes of panicked doctors  and besieged hospitals. One city councilman said officials were considering  creating temporary mass graves in one of the city’s public parks . 
  While hospitalizations in the New York had been growing at a rate of 20 to 30 percent a day, they are now increasing at a single-digit rate, Mr. Cuomo said. But even as he spoke of a “possible flattening of the curve,” he made it clear that hospitals were already being stretched to their limits. And he doubled the maximum fine for violating social distancing rules, to $1,000, calling compliance more important than ever.
  “If we are plateauing, we are plateauing at a very high level, and there is tremendous stress on the health care system,” Mr. Cuomo said, adding that system was already at maximum capacity. 
  New York’s 599 new deaths from the virus marked a slight increase from Saturday, when 594 people were reported dead, but a drop from Friday, when the state’s daily death toll peaked at 630. Over all, nearly 5,000 people have died from the virus in New York, half of those in New York City. Nationwide, at least 10,522 people have died.
  Mr. Cuomo cautioned against overconfidence. “This is an enemy that we have underestimated from Day 1, and we have paid the price dearly,” he said, warning that just because the numbers looked as if they might be moving in the right direction did not mean that the crisis was over. “Other places have made that mistake.”
  Hospitals continue to confront severe shortages in testing and  protective equipment for medical staff  working to combat the coronavirus outbreak, according to a  government watchdog report released on Monday  that appears to undercut President Trump’s assurances that states have sufficient resources. 
  Staff and patients alike are put at risk by the lack of available protective gear, according to the report by the inspector general of Health and Human Services. 
  Hospital administrators are forced to grapple with “sharp increases” in prices for items such as masks, gloves and face shields from vendors, the report continues. 
  The  lack of testing  has forced hospitals to extend the stays of patients, pushing the facilities even farther beyond their capacities. Hospitals are also in need of thermometers, disinfectants, medical gas, linens, toilet paper and food. And doctors around the United States are still pleading for  ventilators , even as the federal government has limited the number of lifesaving devices issued to states. 
  The report was based on interviews conducted March 23 through March 27 with more than 320 hospitals across 46 states, as well as the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. 
  The findings are in line with  pleas made by governors , medical workers and hospital administrators, but they contrast sharply with statements made by Mr. Trump,  who said this weekend  that hospital administrators were “thrilled to be where they are.” 
  “Whenever local shortages are reported, we’re asking states to immediately meet the demand. And we’re stockpiling large amounts in different areas,” Mr. Trump said at a White House news briefing on Saturday.
  The report was issued days after reports that  protective equipment in the government’s strategic national stockpile was nearly depleted , forcing the Federal Emergency Management Agency to conduct an international search for such equipment. Those efforts have also increased competition for states and localities. 
  In a briefing at the White House, President Trump signaled that he had ended a days-long campaign to pressure 3M into ending sales of surgical masks overseas by invoking the Defense Production Act, a Korean War-era law that grants him expanded powers to compel companies to produce needed goods. 
  The company, which had been under siege by the president’s Twitter account — “We hit 3M hard today after seeing what they were doing with their masks,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter on Thursday — had consented to an “amicable agreement” as a result of Mr. Trump’s use of the D.P.A., the president said on Monday.
  “We’re going to be getting over the next couple of months 166.5 million masks for front line workers,” Mr. Trump said, adding that 3M, a venerable Minnesota company, would produce some 55 million masks a month. 3M  confirmed the agreement in a statement . 
  Over the past week, 3M faced withering attacks from Trump advisers including Peter Navarro, the president’s top trade adviser, who accused the company of “operating like a sovereign profit-maximizing nation internationally.” 
  Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and President Trump spoke on Monday about the coronavirus, a rare conversation between the incumbent president and his likely Democratic challenger.
  Mr. Biden had offered to speak with Mr. Trump in recent days, and the two connected after Mr. Trump  tweeted , “What ever happened to that phone call he told the Fake News he wanted to make to me?”
  Mr. Trump on Monday evening said the call lasted about 15 minutes and was a “very nice conversation.”    “He had suggestions,” Mr. Trump said. “It doesn’t mean I agree with those suggestions but certainly he had suggestions.”    
  Iran, a regional epicenter for the virus, will lift a nationwide business shutdown and the majority of the work force will return to work by Saturday, the government announced.
  President Hassan Rouhani said that economic and government activity had to continue, and that the idea that Iranians had to “choose between the economy and their health” was a false choice.
  “This is completely false and rejected,” he said. “Both economic activity and health protocols can be implemented together.”
  The return to business as usual this week covers all provinces except Tehran, the capital, which will follow suit a week later.
  In Japan, where new coronavirus cases are rapidly increasing in Tokyo and other cities,  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe  said on Monday that he would declare a state of emergency in seven prefectures that include the country’s largest population centers. 
  Mr. Abe, whose country faces a deep recession as the virus hinders trade and tourism, also announced an economic stimulus package worth nearly $1 trillion. He said that the government would suspend $240 billion in tax and social security payments and pay about $55 billion to households whose incomes have been affected by the pandemic.
  Under an emergency law enacted last month, Mr. Abe can ask prefectural governors to close schools, request that residents refrain from going out or holding events, and order building owners to contribute their facilities for medical use. He cannot issue  stay-at-home orders  or force businesses to close, as other countries have done. 
  Countries worldwide continued to struggle with the pandemic, as the virus has sickened more than 1.3 million people, with more than 73,000 deaths.
  Stocks rallied on Monday as investors seized on signals that the outbreak may be peaking in some of the world’s worst-hit places.
  The number of new confirmed deaths and infections is slowing in parts of Europe, and the  number of deaths in New York  has been steady for two days. In Italy and Spain, the total number of patients continues to climb, but the rate of new infections is no longer rising.
  Wall Street analysts have been closely tracking the growth path of infections, with some spotlighting recent news as an indication that the outbreak could be near a peak in the United States. Analysts highlighted the tentative deceleration of infections in New York as a good sign for other virus hot spots in the country, as well as stock market sentiment.
  The optimism drove shares sharply higher. The S&P 500 rose about 7 percent, its biggest gain since March 24.
  Some areas of the market that have been hit hardest by shutdowns of economic activity soared. The hotel chain Marriott and the casino company Wynn, for example, each rose more than 15 percent. Credit card companies also rallied, after being hammered by soaring unemployment in recent weeks, which makes people less likely to pay their bills. Capital One and Discover Financial both jumped more than 15 percent. Payment giant Visa rose more than 11 percent.
  Shares of cruise operator Carnival jumped by more than 20 percent after  Saudi Arabia’s state investment fund  said it has acquired an 8 percent stake in the company.
  President Trump’s acting Navy secretary, in  a profanity-laced reprimand delivered Monday , criticized sailors aboard the stricken aircraft carrier U.S.S. Theodore Roosevelt for cheering their captain, who was removed after he appealed for help as coronavirus spread throughout the warship.
  The Navy’s top civilian, Thomas B. Modly,  delivered his message  over the ship’s loudspeaker system and deepened the raw us-versus-them atmosphere that had already engulfed the carrier. It also exposed the schism between Mr. Trump, a commander in chief with little regard for the military’s chain of command, and the uniformed Navy that is sworn to follow him.
  Like much in the Trump administration, what began as a seemingly straightforward challenge — the arrival of coronavirus onboard a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier — has now engulfed the military, leading to far-reaching questions of undue command influence and the demoralization of young men and women who promise to protect the country. 
  The crew of the Theodore Roosevelt had already registered its discontent with the Trump administration’s decision to remove the commander, by  cheering for Capt. Brett E. Crozier  as he walked down the gangway last week and left the ship.
  Mr. Modly addressed the crew of the Theodore Roosevelt on Monday afternoon in a profane and defensive address that one crew member described in an interview as “whiny, upset, irritated, condescending.” In his remarks, an audio recording of which was  obtained by The New York Times , Mr. Modly took repeated shots at the integrity of Capt. Brett E. Crozier, who was removed from command last week, and injected partisan political tones into the address by attacking Mr. Biden, who has repeatedly criticized Captain Crozier’s removal.
  Mr. Modly said Captain Crozier was “too naïve or too stupid to be a commanding officer” if he thought that letter wasn’t going to leak. “The alternative is that he did this on purpose,” Mr. Modly added.
  In his daily news briefing on Monday, President Trump raised the possibility that he might intervene personally in the case.
  Although Mr. Trump has expressed optimism that sports leagues would resume play “sooner than later,” sports leaders have been planning for a longer postponement of games and events, extending into the fall and possibly later.
  After meeting with commissioners of several major sports leagues on Saturday, ESPN reported that Mr. Trump discussed resuming sports in August.
  “A lot of people are tired at looking at games that are five years old,” he said at his Monday news briefing.
  Still, a range of sports leaders and public officials have cast doubt on anything getting back to normal anytime soon, and even fall events have been thrown into question over concerns that a renewal of mass gatherings could undermine any gains made in the pandemic by then.
  The N.F.L., which is scheduled to conduct its annual draft on April 23-25 by videoconference, has said it is focused on not altering the regular season, which is scheduled to begin in September. But some owners say there is a good chance the international games in London and Mexico City will be moved back to the United States and one owner said there is a possibility that the season could be trimmed to as few as 10 games, from 16 now.
  The N.B.A. and N.H.L., which were deep into their 2019-2020 season when they were shut down last month, may be unable to finish their seasons because so many of the host cities have restrictions on nonessential travel and because of the difficulty of acquiring enough test kits to ensure the safety of the players, team staff members and workers in arenas.   A spokesman for the N.B.A., whose postseason would have begun April 18, said any decision on restarting the season is likely weeks away.
  Major League Soccer and Major League Baseball, which had just begun playing games, are now looking at truncated schedules. But most sports and event officials say they will let the advice of medical experts, not the president, guide their decisions on when to resume play.
  Indeed, the governors of two of the country’s largest states — California and New York, which together host 20 teams in the five largest leagues — said they were skeptical of the president’s timeline.
  “I’m not anticipating that happening in this state,” Governor Newsom of California said Saturday  after the president spoke . “One has to be very cautious here, one has to be careful not to overpromise.”
  Nicaragua, an outlier in the battle against the coronavirus, has kept its schools and shops open and its streets lively. But there is one person who has not been seen in public since the outbreak began there last month: the president.
  Daniel Ortega, the head of Nicaragua’s socialist government, has been conspicuously absent from public view since March 12, when he attended a virtual meeting. He has failed to attend the funeral of a friend, government functions and even the rallies promoted by his administration.
  His absence has led to a social media meme. “Be like Ortega: Stay Home,” it says, contrasting what the Nicaraguan leader appears to be doing with what his administration is recommending to the population.
  Mr. Ortega, 74, is widely believed to suffer from chronic illnesses and is known for spending stretches of time out of the public eye without explanation from his government.
  But the timing, and the fact that neither he nor any member of his family attended the funeral over the weekend of Jacinto Suárez, an ally of Mr. Ortega’s from his days as a guerrilla, has led to widespread speculation that he is in quarantine.
  The government did not respond to requests for comment. In her daily briefing on Saturday, Mr. Ortega’s wife, Vice President Rosario Murillo, said the president was “here, working, directing, coordinating all the efforts.”
  The government claims that the country has only four confirmed cases of Covid-19 and one death.
  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced on Monday that Israeli Jews would have to spend the first night of Passover, when families traditionally gather to celebrate the festival of freedom, under curfew.
  Passover begins on Wednesday night but the measures, intended to prevent a larger outbreak of the virus, will start at 7 p.m. on Tuesday, when travel between cities will be temporarily banned and residents of certain parts of Jerusalem will be confined to their neighborhoods.
  From 6 p.m. on Wednesday until 7 a.m. on Thursday, Israelis will have to remain in their homes and observe the Seder night rituals and festive meal only with those living under the same roof.
  There are almost 9,000 known cases of the virus in Israel and 57 fatalities so far, and the country is already under a general lockdown, with exceptions made for some workers, outings for essential errands and exercise or dog-walking within a 100-meter radius of one’s home.
  The Seder night traditions commemorate the biblical liberation of the Israelites from slavery in ancient Egypt after 10 plagues were visited upon the Egyptians.
  The American Civil Liberties Union has filed its first lawsuit over government-imposed    virus restrictions.
  The suit, filed over the weekend, argues that  Puerto Rico’s nightly curfew and some other strict rules  aimed at limiting public contact are unconstitutional. The police in Puerto Rico, a U.S. territory, have cited hundreds of people for violating the 7 p.m.-5 a.m. curfew since it was imposed on March 15.
  Gov. Wanda Vázquez’s executive order also requires that people stay home during the day unless they are going to a grocery store, pharmacy, bank, gas station or medical appointment, or are providing medical care. Those found guilty of violating the order face a $5,000 fine or up to six months in jail.
  The order further limits gatherings to close family members, a criterion the lawsuit says should not be defined by the state and is too vague for practical application by the police. Three plaintiffs who joined the lawsuit said that they fear arrest when they leave their homes each day to care for their elderly mothers.
  (Puerto Rico has restricted traffic to alternating days based on license plates.)
  “The order expects constitutional rights to be blindly handed over to the government, and that is unacceptable,” the lawsuit says.
  On Sunday, Gov. Vázquez  announced even tighter rules , shutting down all businesses except pharmacies and gas stations later this week from Good Friday through Easter Sunday.
  As the pandemic has spread across America, chaos has reigned in the process of securing much-needed medical supplies for front-line workers. States are competing with one another, and with the federal government. The process has drawn in fraudsters, and F.B.I. investigations are underway.
  California has received moldy masks that were useless, and a deal put together by a labor union to secure millions of N95 masks for Los Angeles County’s hospitals never materialized.
  With 40 million people, California is the most populous state, and it is now trying to band together with other states to ensure they are not outbid simply because of their size. Gov. Gavin Newsom said he had been in discussions with other states to organize procurement efforts.
  “This has been described, I think appropriately, as the wild, wild West,” Mr. Newsom said on Sunday. “We are trying to organize in a more deliberative manner.”
  California said on Monday it was sending 500 ventilators to the national stockpile to aid New York. The move followed similar actions by Oregon, which has said it was sending 140 ventilators to New York, and Washington State, which has offered up 400 ventilators to New York.
  Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas said on Monday that the state had received 2.5 million medical masks in the past 24 hours, and was set to receive an additional 3 million masks this week. He said that he was preparing for increased numbers of cases and hospitalizations in Texas in the coming weeks, but that the state was also ready to assist others.
  “If we make the assessment that we have 100 percent capability of meeting the health care needs for the people of the state of Texas, at that point in time, we would be able to help out other states,” the governor said before a mountain of boxes of protective equipment.
  As  stay-at-home orders  have spread across the United States, governors in  Rhode Island ,    Texas  and  Florida  have ordered some drivers coming from out of state to be stopped at the border and reminded of the quarantine requirement. No state has blocked drivers from passing through on their way to their final destination. Some municipalities have added checkpoints and restrictions of their own.
  Texas set up checkpoints on its border with Louisiana on Sunday to screen people for the coronavirus, widening the scope of a mandatory quarantine order for visitors from one of the country’s emergent hot spots, the authorities said.
  Photos of the checkpoints  appeared on the Facebook page of the Louisiana State Police , which advised travelers to exercise caution and remain alert for traffic congestion in a post mentioning the enforcement measures. The post said commercial traffic would not be obstructed.
  The screening measures came a week after  Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas  expanded a mandatory 14-day self-quarantine for travelers arriving from Louisiana, as well as air travelers from a number of other states and cities. 
  The steps taken in Texas recalled an order last month by Gov. Gina Raimondo of Rhode Island, who  ordered checkpoints in her state  that singled out vehicles with New York license plates to enforce a similar quarantine.
  Some two weeks after Marie Margolius, 27, drove from her apartment in Brooklyn to a family home in Middletown, R.I., to stay with her family,  the National Guard dropped by .
  The family cars, all with Massachusetts license plates, were parked in the front yard. The officers took notes of the family members’ names and date of arrival into town and instructed them to continue self-isolating.
  “It felt surreal seeing these men in uniform, wearing masks, knocking on doors in an effort to get a handle on who’s here,” she said. “But it made me feel safe. The fact that they are attempting to really understand the situation in our community was sort of comforting.”
  Inovio Pharmaceuticals announced Monday that it will begin a small safety test of a potential coronavirus vaccine in adults in Philadelphia and Kansas City, Missouri.
  Inovio’s product is the second vaccine candidate to start early human trials in the United States. Researchers began testing a vaccine candidate developed by the biotech company Moderna in Seattle in mid-March.
  Inovio’s candidate, called INO-4800, is a DNA vaccine, which packages a piece of the coronavirus genetic code inside synthetic DNA. This approach has the advantage of being faster to produce and tends to be more stable than traditional vaccines, which require the production of a weakened version of the actual virus or viral proteins to induce an immune response.
  There is no treatment or vaccine against the new coronavirus, although several companies have announced that they are developing vaccines around the world. 
  Even if the research goes well, it may take over a year for Inovio’s vaccine to become widely available to the public. Because of the global demand, any vaccine that proves to be safe and effective at the end of its clinical trials will also have to overcome obstacles in manufacturing and equitable distribution.
  Inovio is planning to have a million doses available by the end of 2020 for additional clinical trials and emergency use.
  Also on Monday, GlaxoSmithKline announced that it will collaborate with San Francisco-based Vir Biotechnology to develop solutions for the coronavirus. GlaxoSmithKline will make a $250 million equity investment in Vir.
  Add another public health crisis to the toll of the new coronavirus: Mounting data suggests that  domestic abuse is acting like an opportunistic infection , flourishing in the conditions created by the pandemic.
  There was every reason to believe that the restrictions imposed to keep the virus from spreading would have such an effect, said Marianne Hester, a Bristol University sociologist who studies abusive relationships. Domestic violence goes up whenever families spend more time together, such as the Christmas and summer vacations, she said.
  Now, with families in lockdown worldwide, hotlines are lighting up with abuse reports, leaving governments trying to address a crisis that experts say they should have seen coming.
  The United Nations called on Sunday for urgent action to combat the worldwide surge in domestic violence. “I urge all governments to put women’s safety first as they respond to the pandemic,” Secretary General António Guterres wrote on Twitter.
  But governments largely failed to prepare for the way the new public health measures would create opportunities for abusers to terrorize their victims. Now, many are scrambling to offer services to those at risk.
  In Lebanon and Malaysia, the number of calls to domestic violence help lines was double that of the same month last year, while in China, they are three times higher.
  In Britain,  the National Domestic Abuse Helpline  has seen a 25 percent increase in calls and online requests for support since the lockdown began,  the charity Refuge said . In Kosovo, the Ministry of Justice reported  a 17 percent increase in gender-based violence cases .
  Scotland’s chief medical officer, Dr. Catherine Calderwood, resigned on Sunday after  photographs of her and her family  at their second home in a Scottish coastal town emerged, causing a flurry of outrage and accusations of hypocrisy.
  “I am deeply sorry for my actions and the mistakes I have made,” Dr. Calderwood said in her  resignation statement  on Sunday. She had been one of the most prominent faces of the Scottish government’s “stay at home” campaign.
  Dr. Calderwood added that the people of Scotland needed to have “complete trust in those who give them advice.” She had previously urged the public to “only go out when absolutely necessary for food, medicine, work, or exercise” in a government video.
  The photographs of Dr. Calderwood and her family at the country home in Earlsferry, a town about 45 miles from their permanent residence in Edinburgh, prompted anger and a warning from the police.
  “The legal instructions on not leaving your home without a reasonable excuse apply to everyone,” Iain Livingstone, the chief constable of Police Scotland,  said in a statement  on Sunday.
  Nicola Sturgeon, the first minister of Scotland, praised Dr. Calderwood’s contribution to health and medicine in the country but  said on Sunday  that she had made “a very serious mistake in her actions.”
  “It was clear to us yesterday she couldn’t continue to be the face of the public advice campaign,” Ms. Sturgeon  told a morning news show  in Britain on Monday.
  Losing your  sense of smell when you have other flulike symptoms  is a strong predictor that you are infected with the new coronavirus, according to data from more than one million users of a symptom-tracking app in Britain.
  The report, posted online last week at MediRx, adds to intriguing evidence that a sharply diminished sense of smell — occurring without congestion or blocked sinuses — may be a peculiar telltale sign of the virus’s presence.
  A research team at King’s College London developed the  Covid Symptom Tracker app . It drew over 1.5 million users within a week of its start on March 24.
  Participants with and without symptoms of illness are encouraged to enter data about their location, age and general health, and to provide daily updates on symptoms, if any, as well as doctors’ visits, test results and quarantining.
  While data from a self-selected group does not meet the scientific gold standard of randomized sampling, researchers are able to use the information to develop models for the combination of symptoms that most accurately predicts a coronavirus infection.
  Nearly 60 percent of the 579 users who said they had tested positive for infection with the coronavirus reported that one of their symptoms was losing their sense of smell. Only 18 percent of the 1,123 symptomatic users who tested negative said they could no longer smell.
  Indian health officials have identified what is believed to be the country’s first “superspreader” of the coronavirus, tracing more than a quarter of the country’s infections to gatherings held by a Muslim missionary group in New Delhi.
  The cluster of infections, linked to events held last month at the Tablighi Jamaat Center in India’s capital, has set off frantic efforts to trace thousands of attendees around India, many of them foreigners visiting from Southeast Asia.
  India has  4,067 confirmed cases and 109 deaths , with officials linking more than 1,000 of those cases to adherents of Tablighi Jamaat, an influential Islamist movement that urges Muslims to model their religious behavior and dress after the prophet, Muhammad.
  In recent weeks, the group’s gatherings  in Malaysia  and  in Pakistan  have also played significant roles in spreading the virus globally.
  As India’s  21-day nationwide lockdown  nears its final week, the authorities have rushed to track more than 20,000 people who visited the Tablighi Jamaat Center in New Delhi, including preachers from Indonesia and the Philippines, several of whom have already died from the virus.
  In the state of Uttarakhand, the police warned Tablighi Jamaat members that they could  face attempt-to-murder charges  if they did not report to health officials by Monday and were subsequently linked to an undisclosed case of the coronavirus.
  Poland’s government is pushing ahead with a plan to hold its presidential election in May even if the nationwide lockdown remains in place, saying that millions of voters could cast their ballots by mail.
  The candidate of the largest opposition party, Malgorzata Kidawa-Blonska of Civic Platform, has already ruled out running if the election is not delayed. Other opposition parties, whose candidates have also had to halt their campaigns, joined to warn that a May election would be unfair and possibly illegal. They said that the changes to enable widespread postal voting would violate the Constitution, which prohibits modifications to    electoral law less than half a year before a ballot.
  Still, the Polish Parliament is expected to vote on the plan later this week, setting up the prospect of an election boycotted by the opposition and with its legality possibly questioned by state courts and European authorities.
  The proposal by the government, which is controlled by the conservative Law and Justice party, calls for postal workers to deliver ballots to mailboxes but, to limit the risk of infection, not to verify that they had reached the intended registered voters at the address. The deputy minister of defense has been appointed to oversee the effort.
  Critics say that postal elections would cause chaos. There are doubts about whether the national postal service, with its current staff shortage, could manage ballots from 30 million voters. Poland has never held a mail-in election, and the head of the Union of Postal Workers in the country called the plan “absurd.”
  But Jaroslaw Kaczynski,  the leader of Law and Justice , said that the postal election was the only way to hold a safe vote. He said that the ballot could not be postponed for a year because Poland would need to be focused on the next fight: rebuilding the economy.
  “Next year, we will be in a painful fight against an economic crisis,” Mr. Kaczynski told the national radio broadcaster. “People always blame the authorities under such circumstances.”
  President Andrzej Duda , Law and Justice’s candidate, holds a commanding lead in the polls and has been a prominent player in the government’s fight against the virus.
  Poland, which responded to the pandemic with among the most stringent lockdowns in Europe, has a relatively low number of infections. As of Monday morning, there had been about 4,200 recorded cases, including 98 deaths.
  The nation’s leading infectious disease specialist said Sunday night that as many as half the people infected with the virus may not have any symptoms, a much larger estimate than the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  gave last week .
  “It’s somewhere between 25 and 50 percent,” said the specialist, Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, during  a briefing by Mr. Trump  and members of the coronavirus task force on Sunday. The doctor cautioned, however, that it was only an estimate, adding that even the scientists helping lead the nation’s fight against the virus, “the friends that we are, we differ about that.”
  In an interview with National Public Radio last week, Dr. Robert Redfield, the director of the C.D.C., said that as many as 25 percent of people with the virus exhibited no symptoms. The large number of  symptom-free cases  — and scientists’ changing understanding of just how common such cases are — helps explain why the C.D.C. last week  changed its guidance , recommending that all Americans wear a cloth face covering in public settings like grocery stores and pharmacies where they cannot ensure keeping a safe distance from others.
  It also underscores the extraordinary challenge of controlling the virus’s spread. Dr. Fauci emphasized that for now his estimate was only a guess and that more testing was needed to figure out exactly how many Americans were carrying the virus without realizing it.
  “Then we can answer the question in a scientifically sound way,” he said. “Right now, we’re just guessing.”
  The crisis in the sprawling refugee camps scattered across Greece deepened on Monday as health officials rushed to test hundreds of migrants after a decision on Sunday to quarantine a second center on the mainland.
  More than 100,000 migrants live in facilities across the country — 40,000 of them in  overcrowded camps  on five islands in the Aegean Sea.  Aid groups have urged the Greek authorities to evacuate the island camps , warning of the difficulty of controlling a potential outbreak of the virus in unsanitary and cramped conditions.
  But the asylum process has ground to a halt, and transfers from the sprawling tent cities on the islands to the mainland have been suspended.
  Still, more people arrive daily from neighboring Turkey, and there are fears that a new crisis is in the making.
  The local authorities are not putting new arrivals in existing camps, citing a fear of potential infections, and have yet to find alternative accommodation. On the island of Lesbos, dozens of migrants are sleeping on beaches, some in an old bus at the island’s main port of Mytilene, others in tents and under broken boats, a few dozen in a chapel and others in the mountains, according to news reports there.
  On the mainland, a camp in Malakasa, east of Athens, will be locked down for two weeks after a 53-year-old man tested positive for the coronavirus, the authorities said on Sunday.
  The minister for immigration and asylum, Notis Mitarakis, said that no cases had been recorded in Greek island camps. 
  He said that the transfer of migrants to mainland facilities as part of efforts to “decongest” the island camps had been suspended. But he said that the government’s plan to replace overcrowded camps with enclosed detention centers, with tighter security, would proceed. 
  The plans have been vehemently opposed by residents of the islands who want all facilities shut and who staged protests after a renewed influx of migrants in early March.
  Mr. Trump doubled down on Sunday on  his push for the use of an anti-malarial drug against the virus , issuing medical advice that goes well beyond scant evidence of the drug’s effectiveness as well as the advice of doctors and public health experts.
  Mr. Trump’s recommendation of hydroxychloroquine, for the second day in a row at a White House briefing, was a striking example of his brazen willingness to distort and outright defy expert opinion and scientific evidence when it does not suit his agenda.
  Mr. Trump suggested he was speaking on gut instinct, and acknowledged he had no expertise on the subject.
  “But what do I know? I’m not a doctor,” Mr. Trump said, after  recommending the anti-malaria drug’s use  for virus patients as well as medical personnel at high risk of infection.
  “If it does work, it would be a shame we did not do it early,” Mr. Trump said, noting again that the federal government had purchased and stockpiled 29 million doses of the drug.
  “What do you have to lose?” Mr. Trump asked, for the second day in a row.
  When a reporter asked  Dr. Anthony S. Fauci , the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, to weigh in on the question of using hydroxychloroquine, Mr. Trump stopped him from answering. As the reporter noted that Dr. Fauci was the president’s medical expert, Mr. Trump made it clear he did not want the doctor to answer.
  “He’s answered the question 15 times,” the president said, stepping toward the lectern where Dr. Fauci was standing.
  On Saturday, Dr. Fauci had privately challenged rising optimism about the drug’s efficacy during a meeting of the coronavirus task force in the White House’s Situation Room, according to two people familiar with the events. The argument was  first reported  by the website Axios and confirmed on CNN on Monday morning when Peter Navarro, the president’s trade adviser who is overseeing supply chain issues related to the virus, acknowledged the disagreement.
  Mr. Navarro said he had taken    a sheaf of folders to the meeting, outlining several studies from various countries, as well as information culled from C.D.C. officials, showing the “clear” efficacy of chloroquines in treating the virus.
  Dr. Fauci pushed back, echoing remarks he has made in a series of interviews in the last week that rigorous study is still necessary. Mr. Navarro, an economist by training, shot back that the information he had collected was “science,” according to the people familiar with what took place.
  If you are among the more than six million Americans applying for unemployment insurance this month, you are most likely doing so for the first time. It’s important to understand how unemployment works and how it can help you in this time of need. We also have tips for making a will and starting an emergency fund.
 