The White House rapidly increased testing for those around President Trump Thursday after a staffer whose job potentially put him in close daily contact with the president  had tested positive for the novel coronavirus . It’s the president’s closest known contact with an infected person since the early days of the U.S. response to the pandemic.
  Covid-19 has killed more than 75,000 people in the United States, with around 1.25 million confirmed cases, according to  tracking by The Washington Post .
  Here are some significant developments:
  Sign up for our coronavirus newsletter  | Mapping the spread of the coronavirus:  Across the U.S.  |  Worldwide  |  What you need to know about the virus 
  The first person to contract the coronavirus through person-to-person contact caught it in a nail salon, Gov. Gavin Newsom (D) said Thursday.
  After the governor announced a four-step plan to lift restrictions on the state’s economy, some have questioned Newsom on why the nail salons and other personal services will not be immediately allowed to reopen.
  California will shift from phase one to phase two on Friday. But unlike most other states that have reopened or are looking to do so soon, it has barred these services from reopening for at least several weeks, until phase three.
  “This whole thing started in the state of California, the first community spread, in a nail salon,” Newsom said at a news conference. “I’m very worried about that.”
  Businesses that have been deemed “low risk,” such as bookstores and florists, will be allowed to open as soon as Friday with changes to enforce social distancing, including curbside pickup.
  But health officials have put “red flags” on nail salons and other high-risk businesses, such as gyms and hair salons, that are likelier to have more person-to-person contact between employees and customers.
  Newsom did not offer any more information about the alleged link between California’s outbreak and nail salons.
  In February, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said the country’s first community spread  case of the coronavirus had occurred  in Solano County, between Sacramento and the San Francisco Bay area.
  According to  the Los Angeles Times, federal officials could not determine how that patient had contracted the virus, though they had not been in contact with people who had returned from China or other “hot spots” at the time.
  Food processing employees make up about 1 in 7 of Nebraska’s coronavirus infections, Gov. Pete Ricketts (R) said Thursday, but state health officials will not release data on outbreaks in meatpacking plants.
  Like many other Midwestern states, Nebraska is home to several large pork and beef facilities that  can be especially prone to virus outbreaks . Employees work shoulder-to-shoulder on crowded factory floors, and some have said they have been ordered to come to work while showing symptoms.
  On Thursday, Ricketts revealed the virus’s toll on Nebraskans in that industry. A total of 1,005 employees had contracted the virus, he said at a news conference. At least three have died,  according to  NET, Nebraska Public Radio and Television.
  The outbreak has spurred concerns about a possible breakdown in the food supply chain, and President Trump had taken the extraordinary measure of compelling meatpacking companies, including Tyson Foods and JBS USA, to remain open.
  But Ricketts will only allow the state’s health department to report aggregate data on coronavirus infections at plants, he said, because data for individual facilities may be inaccurate.
  “What we’ve found is some people will go and say they work for a facility and they’ve tested positive, when they don’t work for that facility,” he said, according to NET. “Some people maybe tested positive and they won’t tell you they work for that facility.”
  He also urged counties not to disclose that information, unless it has been verified and meat plants have given authorities their approval.
  Yet concerns linger that processing companies may try to suppress information about outbreaks at their plants, after giving employees faulty protective equipment and telling them to come to work anyway.
  Frontier Airlines said Thursday it will require passengers to have their temperatures taken before boarding flights, starting June 1, in an effort to make traveling safer during the coronavirus pandemic.
  Anyone with a temperature of 100.4 or higher will not be allowed to fly, the budget carrier said.
  “This new step during the boarding process, coupled with face coverings and elevated disinfection procedures, will serve to provide Frontier customers an assurance that their well-being is our foremost priority and we are taking every measure to help them travel comfortably and safely,” Frontier Airlines CEO Barry Biffle said in a statement.
  Read more  here .
  Maryland and Virginia residents with heart ailments and other life-threatening conditions increasingly appear to be avoiding hospital emergency rooms, an extra layer of concern during the coronavirus crisis that is also happening  elsewhere in the country .
  With ER visits in Maryland  down by half  in recent weeks, hospital officials in the state are worried that patients in need of urgent care are choosing to suffer longer out of fear that a trip to the hospital will put them at greater risk of being infected by the novel coronavirus.
  State hospital officials say visits for cancer-related ailments, heart and vascular disease, gastric disease, and obstetrics have all declined since the virus began sweeping through the region.
  Read more  here .
  As countries around the world start to reopen their economies and consider how to safely reopen schools amid the  coronavirus  pandemic, international development experts say they are worried that tens of millions of students in the world’s poorest nations may never go back to class.
  In the world’s 67 poorest countries, 58 have closed schools, affecting 341 million children as of Wednesday, according to the Global Partnership for Education.
  Alice Albright, chief executive of that organization, said the combination of the coronavirus crisis, economic weakness and unrest in some places will affect millions of young people who are out of school and that many will probably not return because of the costs and family pressures on them to work. Girls, she said, will be the most severely affected.
  Read more here .
  Transportation Security Administration officers will now be required to wear masks when they screen passengers at airport security checkpoints.
  The decision, announced Thursday, comes  as airlines  began implementing mandatory mask policies for passengers and crew members. On Thursday,  Amtrak  also announced that passengers would have to wear masks when they travel.
  Officials said the goal is to help stop the spread of the coronavirus, which has continued to sicken thousands across the country, officials said. More than a  million people in the U.S.  have been infected and more than 75,000 have died. At TSA more than 500 employees have contracted the virus and at least six have died.
  Read more  here .
  With some jurisdictions easing social distancing restrictions, the restaurant dine-in experience has been limited to dining outside.
  This week in parts of South Carolina and West Virginia, restaurants have offered al fresco dining on patios and parking lots.  New Hampshire eateries  can begin serving guests outside the physical building beginning May 18. The states have allowed curbside pickup, but for the time being, restaurants must serve sit-down diners outdoors with several feet of distance between the tables.
  “This is step one. We’ll never get back to normal if we don’t try,”  Jason Mike, a general manager of a West Virginia Buffalo Wild Wings, told WDTV .
  However, other restaurant owners have experienced challenges with the outdoor-only mandate.
  “We’re losing a lot of people. The server industry is really in a shakeup. I don’t know how any place is going to be able to abide by the rules,”  Scott Estep, an owner of several South Carolina restaurants, told the Sumter Item . “You’re not set to run on only 20% capacity. You still have to have a full staff to run.”
  In South Carolina, tables must be spaced at least eight feet apart.
  On Thursday, Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine (R) announced similar measures in which restaurants and bars can begin outdoors dining beginning May 15. The businesses have operated with drive-through, pickup and delivery services since the middle of March. All servers must wear face masks.
  “This is a new gamble, a new journey,” DeWine said,  according to the Columbus Dispatch . “The danger is, we relax. If we relax, take things for granted, things are not going to go the way we want. We don’t want to see a spike.”
  The Food and Drug Administration on Thursday approved a new diagnostic tool that employs the revolutionary CRISPR gene-editing technology to determine in just one hour if someone is infected with the novel  coronavirus .
  The FDA’s emergency use authorization allows only “high-complexity” laboratories to use the test kit, developed by researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Harvard University, the Ragon Institute and the Howard Hughes Medical Institute and marketed by Sherlock Biosciences of Cambridge, Mass. The inventors and marketers of the test describe it as highly accurate and easy to use.
  “We think this has a lot of potential. The test doesn’t require any complicated or expensive equipment,”  said Feng Zhang , a leader of the research team.
  Read more  here .
  President Trump in recent weeks has sought to block or downplay information about the severity of the coronavirus pandemic as he urges a return to normalcy and the rekindling of an economy that has been devastated by public health restrictions aimed at mitigating the outbreak.
  His administration has  sidelined or replaced  officials not seen as loyal, rebuffed congressional requests for testimony,  dismissed jarring statistics and models ,  praised states for reopening without meeting White House guidelines  and, briefly, pushed to disband a task force created to combat the virus and communicate about the public health crisis.
  With polls showing most consumers still afraid to venture out of their homes, the Trump administration has intensified its efforts to soothe some of those fears through a messaging campaign that relies on tightly controlling information about a virus that has proven stubbornly difficult to contain.
  Read more  here .
  A new normal has already begun in Seattle as street closures due to the coronavirus pandemic  will become permanent .
  Mayor Jenny Durkan (D) has announced that about 20 miles of Seattle streets that were closed to provide more space for social distancing will remain so after stay-at-home orders end. The city enacted a “ Stay Healthy Streets ” program to create additional travel options for essential services and more space for exercise and recreational activities.
  “We are in a marathon and not a sprint in our fight against COVID-19,” Durkan  said on her mayoral website . “As we assess how to make the changes that have kept us safe and healthy sustainable for the long term, we must ensure Seattle is rebuilding better than before. Safe and Healthy Streets are an important tool for families in our neighborhoods to get outside, get some exercise and enjoy the nice weather. Over the long term, these streets will become treasured assets in our neighborhoods.”
  Residents; delivery, recycling and garbage workers; and emergency response vehicles will be permitted to use the streets, which will be closed to through traffic. Neighborhoods affected include Aurora-Licton Springs, Ballard, Beacon Hill, the Central District, Greenwood, Othello, Rainier Beach and West Seattle.
  The decision is just one example of many pandemic changes  that could become permanent  until a vaccine is available. For example, wearing masks in public is expected to become much more widespread, and some distancing guidelines for places of business could also be here to stay.
  Marilee Shapiro Asher works in twos: Two husbands, two children. And now, two pandemics.
  Marilee — you get one-name status when your art is in the Smithsonian’s permanent collection — turned 107 last year, and a new exhibition of her work was scheduled for May.
  Coronavirus canceled that show. And then it threatened Marilee. But Marilee is a force, and she’s been here before. Yes, that’s right. This incredible woman — artist, author, photographer, sculptor, therapist, mother, wife — conquered the 1918 flu pandemic in 1918, when she was 6 years old.
  Read more here .
  In Brooklyn, almost every person who has been arrested for not social distancing has been black or Hispanic.
  As part of the city’s ban on mass gatherings, police have enforced social distancing measures among groups of people. From March 17 through Monday, the Brooklyn district attorney announced the arrests of 40 people, 35 of whom were black. Four people were Hispanic and just one was white,  according to the New York Times .
  The New York Police Department and the city prosecutor’s office have not released statistics that reveal the race of those arrested for social distancing violations.
  The racial disparity in the Brooklyn arrests highlighted the recent criticism over how police have enforced social distancing in the city.
  Over the weekend,  video of a violent arrest on Manhattan’s Lower East Side  led to the department taking Officer Francisco Garcia off the street. In the cellphone video, Garcia can be seen cursing at 33-year-old Donni Wright, who is black, then punching him to the ground and sitting on his torso while handcuffing him. The Wright encounter happened immediately after Garcia and two other officers dragged a man to the ground for allegedly possessing marijuana. One officer pinned his knee on the man’s head during the arrest.
  In contrasting images,  police have been photographed handing out masks to people in a park  and a video showed a mass gathering of people appearing  unbothered while sunbathing on grass . In both instances, the crowds were largely white.
  This week, Mayor Bill de Blasio (D) called the violent arrests “ unfortunate and inappropriate ,” but on Thursday he refused to connect the arrests to the city’s history with stop-and-frisk tactics that targeted communities of color.
  “This is the farthest thing from that. This is addressing a pandemic,” de Blasio said, according to the New York Times. “This is addressing the fact that lives are in danger all the time. By definition, our police department needs to be a part of that because safety is what they do.”
  Social media companies including YouTube, Vimeo and Facebook are removing a viral conspiracy theory video because of its claims regarding the coronavirus pandemic.
  The roughly 26-minute video was presented as an extremely long “trailer” for a full-length film titled “Plandemic,” and features an extended interview with Judy Mikovits, a well-known figure in the anti-vaccine movement, who has  made various discredited claims  about the effects of vaccines.
  A YouTube spokesperson said the company removes “content that includes medically unsubstantiated diagnostic advice for covid-19,” which includes the “Plandemic” video. A rep for Facebook said, “Suggesting that wearing a mask can make you sick could lead to imminent harm, so we’re removing the video.”
  Read more  here .
  A health official in Walla Walla County, Wash., has backed off claims that people were participating in “coronavirus parties” with the intent of contracting the virus.
  Department of Community Health Director Meghan DeBolt reversed course Wednesday evening after asking residents Tuesday to use common sense and stop attending such get-togethers in the county in southeast Washington.
  “I formally call back my interview today,″ DeBolt said in a  statement to the Associated Press . “After receiving further information, we have discovered that there were not intentional covid parties. Just innocent endeavors.”
  DeBolt had told the Walla Walla Union-Bulletin that some people who had newly tested positive reported going to the parties. The county had 95 confirmed cases as of Thursday, and DeBolt had said people who had not attended were in danger because the virus can spread via an asymptomatic carrier.
  The Walla Walla County board issued another statement Thursday regarding “social gatherings” that are “beginning to occur.”
  “One of these gatherings had been reported initially as a ‘coronavirus party,’” the statement read, “then later identified as a social gathering, such as a birthday party or Easter service. We are reviewing the facts around this incident.”
  DeBolt had made statements regarding the parties to the Union-Bulletin and on Facebook.
  “We need to . . . use good common sense, and to be smart as we move through this pandemic so that we can begin to reopen our community,” she previously said in  a Facebook video message . “Covid-19 parties — not part of the solution. Live music at dinner pickup at restaurants — not part of the solution.”
 