The coronavirus pandemic  passed 2 million confirmed infections  and 130,000 deaths worldwide on Wednesday — bleak markers that experts say vastly understate the true spread and toll of the contagion because of a lack of testing.
  The figures have roughly doubled in 13 days and continue to grow steadily.
  The actual number of cases is much higher than the official figures suggest, with countries varying in how much they are testing people.
  Even as some European countries, including Germany, hopeful that the worst is behind them, begin to take careful steps to lift restrictions imposed to slow the virus, outbreaks in many parts of the world are still considered far from their peaks.
  In India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has extended a  nationwide lockdown  for nearly three more weeks, leaving more than one billion people under severe restrictions and urging Indians not to “let our guard down.”
  In the United States, the lack of testing capacity has  emerged as a signature failure  of the Trump administration’s response and now threatens to hamper efforts across the country to plan for an eventual reopening of the economy.
  On Wednesday, during the first conference call of President Trump’s economic advisory council on reopening the economy, several business executives echoed a cry that health officials and state and local leaders have been making for weeks, according to one participant: The country needs more testing.
  Leaders from around the world criticized President Trump’s  decision to halt funding  to the World Health Organization as the tally of coronavirus cases passed two million, with at least 126,000 deaths. 
  Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the director-general of the W.H.O., expressed his dismay over the loss of funding  at a news conference  on Wednesday. The United States is the global public health body’s biggest donor, contributing more than $400 million a year, about 10 percent of the organization’s budget.
  “With the support of the people and government of the United States, the W.H.O. works to improve the health of many of the world’s poorest and most vulnerable people,” he said. 
  “W.H.O. is not only fighting Covid-19,” he added. “We are also working to address polio, measles, malaria, Ebola, H.I.V., tuberculosis, malnutrition, cancer, diabetes, mental health and many other diseases and conditions.” 
  Mr. Trump on Tuesday  accused the W.H.O.  of “severely mismanaging and covering up” the spread of the coronavirus in China as he announced that he would cut funding. The decision was  the culmination of mounting anger  among his advisers, Republican lawmakers and conservative media about the organization’s praise of China’s response to the virus.
  Inside the West Wing, officials said there was near-unanimous agreement that the W.H.O. was too heavily influenced by the Chinese government and that it had been too slow to sound the alarm about the virus because it trusted China’s assurances that the situation was under control and did not pose a global threat. 
  António Guterres, the secretary general of the United Nations, said that with the global health agency “on the front lines” of the crisis, it was no time to halt funding. 
  Heiko Maas, the German foreign minister, sent a pointed message to Mr. Trump. “It doesn’t help to blame,”  he wrote on Twitter . “The virus knows no borders.”
  A spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry urged the United States to fulfill its obligation to the W.H.O. at a critical time. And the African Union chairman, Moussa Faki Mahamat, called the move “deeply regrettable”  and said , “Our collective responsibility to ensure W.H.O. can fully carry out its mandate, has never been more urgent.” 
  Dr. Tedros said the W.H.O. would review the impact of the withdrawal of American funding, and “work with our partners to fill any financial gaps we face, and to ensure our work continues uninterrupted.” 
  President Moon Jae-in’s governing party in South Korea won a landslide victory in parliamentary elections on Wednesday, as he leveraged his  surging popularity  over his country’s largely successful battle against the coronavirus to increase his political sway.​
  With more than 99 percent of the votes counted, Mr. Moon’s ​left-leaning ​Democratic Party had won 163 seats in the 300-member National Assembly, according to the National Election Commission. A satellite party the Democrats created for Wednesday’s elections won 17 seats.
  Together, the two groups took three-fifths of the seats, giving Mr. Moon the largest majority in three decades.
  The main conservative opposition group, the United Future Party, and its own satellite, Future Korea Party, suffered a crushing defeat, winning ​103 seats​ between them​. ​The remaining seats were taken by independents and candidates from smaller parties.
  Pandemic or not, South Koreans proved eager to vote in the election, widely seen as a midterm referendum on Mr. Moon​, who was elected to a five-year term in 2017.​ The voter turnout was 66.2 percent, the highest for a parliamentary election in 28 years.
  It was the first time in 16 years that left-leaning parties ​secured a parliamentary majority, as South Koreans expressed their support for Mr. Moon’s government, which has  won plaudits  for bringing the epidemic under control​. ​
  The victory could embolden Mr. Moon to reinvigorate  his stalled diplomacy  with North Korea and ​press ahead with domestic priorities, like  overhauling state prosecutors’ offices, ​​  ​which have ​​long ​been ​accused of abusing their power.
  So many men. Men at the bakery, men on bikes, men in parks, men in the grocery aisles.
  “It’s weird,” said Adriana Pérez, 40, a nurse in scrubs waiting at the bank, the only woman in sight. “But it’s working.”
  Bogotá, Colombia’s capital, joined Panama this week in instituting a gender-based virus-prevention measure designed to limit the number of people in the streets.
  On odd-numbered days, men can leave the house to seek out essentials. On even-numbered days, it’s the women’s turn.
  There are exceptions for people working in critical industries, like food service and health care. Dog walkers of any gender can leave for 20 minutes. But beyond that, anyone caught breaking the rule is subject to a fine of $240, about the minimum monthly salary in Colombia.
  Bogotá’s mayor, Claudia López, the first woman and the first openly gay individual to lead the city, has said that transgender people can follow the gender with which they identify. The authorities, the health order says, should respect “diverse gender manifestations.”
  During the first two days of the measure, 104 women and 610 men were sanctioned by police for violating the order, according to Ms. López. Violators must pay half the fine within five days or face a potential day in court.
  Peru had enacted a similar measure, but President Martín Vizcarra canceled it following criticism that it would lead to discrimination against transgender people.
  The Colombia measure is reminiscent of Bogotá’s best-known traffic policy, which restricts cars by license plate number and is a defining feature of life in the city during normal times.
  The city has been under quarantine for nearly a month, which has been particularly difficult on people with jobs in the informal sector, who typically support their families on the work they do that day or that week.
  On Wednesday, Yesica Benavides, 24, stood amid the men on a Bogotá sidewalk, trying to sell candy. She had no gloves or face covering, having given her only mask to her 3-year-old, Nicole, who was by her side.
  “We go out every day,” she said. The two have been sleeping in a motel, and they pay their rent nightly. “If we don’t go out,” Ms. Benavides said, “we don’t eat.”
  Chancellor Angela Merkel on Wednesday set in motion a plan for Germany to begin lifting social and economic restrictions in place because of the coronavirus, even as she warned that the road ahead would look less like a return to normal than a way to live with a pandemic that has overturned ordinary life.
  The chancellor, a physicist by training, was typically restrained and focused on the science as she announced the government’s cautious step-by-step plan, for which she had won the agreement of regional leaders in Germany’s diffuse federal system.
  Shorn of any bravado, her announcement seemed again to make Germany, Europe’s biggest economy, a de facto leader on the Continent and something of an example for Western nations looking to navigate the tricky course of rebooting economic activity and fighting the virus.
  Her approach stood in stark contrast to the fraught political divisions in the United States, where state authorities have often been at odds with President Trump, who has made forceful but erratic predictions about the virus.
  “We have achieved something,” Ms. Merkel said at a news conference, “something that by no means was a given at the start — namely that our doctors and carers, all those in the medical field, in the hospitals, were not overwhelmed.”
  But she added: “What we’ve achieved is an interim success — no more, no less. And I stress that it is a fragile interim success.”
  An economic lockdown will remain largely in place for an additional 20 days, Ms. Merkel cautioned, and strict social distancing rules will remain in force.
  But some shops will be allowed to reopen beginning next week — although only those with the necessary protections in place to allow strict social distancing to continue, she said.
  Older students might be allowed back to school in May but that will be contingent on a radically changed setup involving small groups, face masks and social distancing rules for school buses.
  By the time the mayor of Bnei Brak grasped the deadly seriousness of the pandemic, his city had already become  Israel’s biggest center of contagion .
  An ultra-Orthodox enclave in the shadow of Tel Aviv, Bnei Brak had one in seven of Israel’s cases, and as many as a third of its 210,000 residents were expected to get sick.
  The very customs that have protected its traditions from change — strict limits on modern technology, an aversion to secular media, a deep suspicion of state institutions — had deafened Bnei Brak’s residents to urgent public health warnings. Densely packed with sprawling families in shoe-box apartments whose lives revolved around shoulder-to-shoulder worship and study, it was fertile ground for the rapid spread of Covid-19.
  In desperation, Mayor Avraham Rubinstein reached outside his community for help from people the ultra-Orthodox have long seen as a threat to their way of life: the army.
  Two weeks later, Bnei Brak still holds Israel’s biggest concentration of known virus cases, but the crisis is coming under control. The rate of new infections has been cut by more than half, the number tested per week has tripled, and only 2,109 residents have tested positive. Synagogues and yeshivas are locked, the streets nearly empty. The sounds of prayer can still be heard at regular intervals, but from balconies and rooftops.
  For the time being, the response to the pandemic has bridged one of Israel’s most acrimonious divides: between a cloistered community that treats outsiders as hostile and the army as a particular threat, fearing its reputation as a secular melting pot, and Israelis who view the ultra-Orthodox as backward and a burden, in part because most refuse military service.
   
  Alissa J. Rubin, The Times’s Baghdad bureau chief, is on her fourth tour of Iraq since 2003. She was there when the country stopped flights in and out in mid-March to slow the coronavirus and declared a lockdown. We asked her to tell us about life there since then. 
  It is dusk, my favorite hour except for dawn, and the muezzin is singing the evening prayer. There will be one more prayer, at about 8:30. These two prayers (for me) are the most beautiful of the day. No matter the temperature, hot or cold, I open my windows to hear them.
  Now the mosques are empty, and the religious authorities have closed the shrines to keep people from gathering in large groups. Even the Friday Prayer — the most important of the week, when thousands usually fill the larger mosques and spill into the streets — is done at home. It was a hard step for the clerics to take; mosques stayed open even during the United States-led invasion.
  I often walk at this hour along the Tigris. There is almost no one there now. The families that used to spread their blankets on the strip of park next to the river no longer picnic, and the hawkers of cheap biscuits and orange soda have all gone home. So the silence of this twilight walk makes for a sad if peaceful interlude. Soon it will be too hot for walking even at night, but for now the evenings are soft.
  Baghdad, a city of about seven million, is usually a cacophony. The infrastructure is dilapidated and litter lies in heaps, but the city had been defiantly alive. 
  Until the curfew, the streets were a jumble of armored 4x4 vehicles, cheap Iranian-made taxis and the occasional horse-drawn cart. Given that many people live in small houses or apartments, life happened mostly outside. At dusk the streets were crowded with shoppers, kids kicking soccer balls, and men playing dominoes on flimsy card tables.
  Not anymore.
  Even in the worst days of the 2003 war, when the Americans were bombing, it was hard for people to stay inside. But the invisible enemy of the virus has hit people’s nerves differently. They are staying home because they are afraid. Although the number of confirmed cases nationwide is relatively low, about 1,400, there is fear that  many more infected people are going undetected  because of the stigma associated with illness and quarantine.
  Almost all the demonstrators who had gathered to protest government corruption and Iranian influence have withdrawn from Tahrir Square, though many of the tents, tattered by the wind and rain, remain. There are still some food vendors selling bowls of warm chickpeas to the few protesters who have stayed, but the music and  art  and a sense of political possibility are long gone.
  It is as if someone has dimmed all the lights.
  I go shopping for food and feel privileged. Many Iraqis are running out of money because they cannot work under the lockdown, so the outdoor markets are filled with women picking things up and putting them down again after checking the price. It seems a small inconvenience that I am getting bored of halloumi cheese. The sweet-tart citrus fruit called sindhi — a cross between a grapefruit and a pomelo but drier, so you can pick up peeled slices and not get your fingers sticky — is still in the markets. Soon, though, its season will be over.
  To keep people close to home, there is a car curfew; exceptions are made for “essential workers” and journalists, who are given badges that the police can check. The curfew is being observed more scrupulously in wealthier areas. But in poorer places tuk-tuks still zoom around and sidewalk vendors lay out their wares, then quickly gather them up when the police come around the corner. For the most part, though, Baghdad has come to a standstill.
  On a recent day in  Sadr City , the vast  impoverished  slum in eastern Baghdad, I said “Shlonich?” (How are you?) to a bosomy lady standing at the gate of her house, grandchildren clustered around her.
  “Imam Hussain is protecting me,” she replied, referring to a revered and martyred grandson of the Prophet Muhammad. “I can never get sick.”
  She pulled a brilliant green scarf from around her neck that she said came from the sacred city of Karbala and stretched out her hand to give it to me. I am afraid that I stepped back and held up my hand in the international signal for “stop.” She looked at me dubiously, as if to say, “You’re really missing something.”
  I am grateful that I have not fallen ill and that I am not — like so many Iraqis — anxious about how to feed my family. I am grateful for the silence, and for the few sounds that no longer have to compete with the clatter of the city. A bird’s song. The muezzin’s call to prayer.
  In normal times, that call draws the men to mosque and signals working people to lay out their prayer rugs wherever they are. Now it echoes down the empty streets and ends with this plea: “Sali fi beitak.” Pray at home.
  President Jair Bolsonaro continues to deny the severity of the pandemic even as more than two dozen members of his administration have tested positive and his health minister and most governors urge him to take strong action.
  The coronavirus is moving briskly through Brazil, infecting more than 28,000 people and killing at least 1,736 as of Wednesday.
  The country’s health minister, along with most governors, supports strict social distancing measures and business shutdowns.
  But Mr. Bolsonaro has railed against the restrictions, arguing that they will create severe economic hardship and unemployment.
  The president has continued to shake hands with supporters on the streets, often drawing crowds. Mr. Bolsonaro  says he has  a “constitutional right to come and go.”
  The divergent messages have left Brazilians uncertain about how strictly they should follow the lockdown policies imposed by state officials, including two governors,  Wilson Witzel of Rio de Janeiro  and  Helder Barbalho of Pará . Both governors said Tuesday in videos posted on Twitter that they had tested positive for the virus, but that they were experiencing mild symptoms.
  Health experts believe the country’s real caseload is bigger than reported because testing has been limited largely to critically ill patients. Medical professionals in hard-hit states fear their hospitals will be overwhelmed before an expected peak in  May or June.  
  In the northern state of Pernambuco, 88 percent of the critical care beds for coronavirus patients were already occupied, André Longo, the state’s health secretary, said Tuesday.
  “Obviously it’s very hard to think of a lockdown, an absolute quarantine, without having the support of the federal government, the backing of the armed forces,”  he told the news site UOL.  
  On Wednesday  the president said  he was looking for a replacement for the country’s health minister, Luiz Henrique Mandetta, a physician who has defied him by calling for strict social isolation measures.
  Opposition parties have urged the courts to order Mr. Bolsonaro to embrace social distancing policies. And some human rights lawyers have asked the International Criminal Court in The Hague to open an investigation into Mr. Bolsonaro’s coronavirus response, arguing that it  amounts to crimes against humanity. 
  The pandemic is driving a surge in support for national leaders, even those whose handling of the crisis has been called into question.
  Don’t expect that to last.
  “People do rally around, but it evaporates fast,” said George Robertson, a former NATO secretary-general and British defense secretary.
  The popularity of governments tends to rise in an emergency, and this one is no different.  Opinion polls show  that approval of several leaders whose ratings were weak before the coronavirus struck, like Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte of Italy and Prime Minister Sebastian Kurz of Austria,  have soared .
  (An exception is President Trump, whose ratings  improved somewhat in March , but have slipped in April.)
  Even those who were already highly regarded, like Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and Prime Minister Mark Rutte of the Netherlands, have gotten a bump in approval ratings.
  But in the long run, performance will matter, and mistakes will be aired and investigated. The economic pain and social isolation of lockdown measures, however justified, could prompt a political backlash. There will be more successes and failures over the months of recovery.
  And eventually, attention will turn back to other issues that made some governments unpopular in the first place. President Emmanuel Macron of France, who had long been unpopular, had a big jump in approval after the virus struck, but it has already faded.
  History offers many examples of crisis-driven support fading quickly.
  Britons admired Winston Churchill for his leadership during World War II — and decisively voted him out of power as the war was ending. And after the 1991 Gulf War, George Bush had record-high approval ratings — and lost his bid for re-election the following year.
  A new pass system to control movement around Moscow got off to a rocky start on Wednesday, leaving subway stations clogged with  throngs of rush-hour travelers  waiting for police officers to check their papers.
  The measures, which require anyone leaving their home to show a digital pass, were intended to help slow the spread of the coronavirus in one of Europe’s largest cities. Instead, they demolished weeks of effort to encourage social distancing.
  Moscow declared a partial lockdown at the end of March, but it has been widely ignored.  The number of new infections has been increasing steadily , and by Wednesday Moscow had recorded 14,776 cases. The city’s mayor, Sergey Sobyanin, warned over the weekend that the outbreak was likely to get much worse.
  The pass system introduced on Wednesday provoked outrage as it created potentially dangerous crowds in subway stations and left traffic backed up for miles.
  Mr. Sobyanin, whose city accounts for more than half of Russia’s confirmed coronavirus infections, acknowledged the mess in a post on Twitter, describing long lines in subway stations as “very critical in the current situation.” He blamed the police.
  Fearing a repeat of the chaotic scenes seen in the morning across Moscow’s subway system, the authorities backed away from strict enforcement of the new pass regime during the capital’s evening rush hour. Police checkpoints vanished from some stations and those police officers who remained in others made only sporadic checks of whether travelers had their digital permits.
  Government critics have been warning for weeks that the Russian authorities would use the pandemic to introduce draconian controls and test video surveillance and other technology that could turn Russia into a Chinese-style police state. The fiasco on Wednesday, however, highlighted how far Russia is from mastering the technology needed to create a ruthlessly efficient tyranny, if that ever was the plan.
  It also helped explain why President Vladimir V. Putin, usually at the center of all major events in Russia, has  kept his distance from the handling of the health crisis  that can only hurt his ratings. 
  Toddlers and schoolchildren in Denmark on Wednesday marked their first day back to school and day care after five weeks of coronavirus closings. The youngest had the task of taking Danish society’s first careful steps toward some semblance of normalcy, a path that’s likely to take months, as the country begins to ease stringent measures imposed as part of the lockdown.
  Denmark was  one of a handful of European countries  that have slowly, tentatively begun lifting constraints on daily life this week for the first time since the start of the coronavirus crisis. They are providing an early litmus test of whether Western democracies can gingerly restart their economies and restore basic freedoms without reviving the spread of the disease.
  On Tuesday,  Italy , the epicenter of Europe’s crisis, reopened some bookshops and children’s clothing stores. Spain allowed workers to return to factories and construction sites, despite a daily death toll that remains over 500. The Finnish government was set on Wednesday to reopen the borders of the southern region of Uusimaa, which includes Helsinki, the capital. The area has been sealed off from the rest of the country since March 28.
  In Denmark, the slow return began as the number of hospital admissions remained far below capacity across the country. By Tuesday, 380 coronavirus patients were being treated in  Danish hospitals , down from 535 at the peak of the outbreak in the country on April 1.
  “It’s better than we dared hope for,” Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen said at a news briefing on Tuesday.
  With the outbreak easing, Ms. Frederiksen’s approval rating has doubled to  79 percent  since the start of the crisis. But she has faced some criticism both for the drastic initial shutdown on March 11 when she closed borders, shuttered schools, shut down most of the public sector and asked the private sector to work from home.
  “We may have saved lives,” she said on Tuesday of the measures, adding that she hoped to return Denmark to the “rich and secure” society it was before the coronavirus.
  “But we’re still going to need some patience,” she added.
  In New York, the epicenter of the outbreak in the United States, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said on Wednesday that he would require people  to wear face coverings in public settings  where they could not keep six feet away from others, an aggressive step in the state’s broader efforts to contain the virus.
  The requirement would be the subject of an executive order set to take effect on Saturday, Mr. Cuomo said. Those who violate the rule could eventually face fines, although Mr. Cuomo added that he was not calling for such penalties
  New York, New Jersey and Maryland are so far the only states to have issued broad orders mandating face coverings in most public settings, according to the most recent information from the National Governors Association.
  Across the country, Mayor Eric Garcetti of Los Angeles announced that anyone with symptoms would be able to get a test within a day, a notable change for the city. Los Angeles, and California generally, has lagged behind many areas of the country in testing its residents for the virus. For weeks, in Los Angeles, testing was limited to only health care workers, the elderly and those with symptoms that required hospitalization.
  California’s rate of infection and the number of deaths have been  substantially lower  than hard hit areas like New York and New Jersey. But testing has been slower: California has carried out about 215,000 tests, compared with about a half a million in New York, according to the  Covid-19 Tracking Project .
  Meanwhile, the  relief payments authorized as part of a $2 trillion stimulus package  have started showing up in Americans’ bank accounts. At the president’s suggestion, his name will appear on the  checks  that will be mailed to millions of Americans beginning next month. 
  Adding Mr. Trump’s name is a break from protocol, and it will appear on the “memo” section of the check because Mr. Trump is not legally authorized to sign such disbursements.
  In the photograph, Africa’s second-highest mountain, Mount Kenya, looms in the distance, contrasted against shiny glass and concrete buildings in the Kenyan capital, Nairobi. The peak, more than 86 miles from the city center, is usually not visible through the pollution hanging over the city, but a lockdown has changed that. 
  The image was posted  on Instagram  by Osman Siddiqi, a resident of Nairobi, and he said it was indicative of how curfews and partial lockdowns had reduced pollution and made it possible to more clearly view the 17,000-foot peak. 
  “The photo is a testament to what we might be missing out on with nature,” Mr. Siddiqi wrote on Instagram. “It really begs us the question, ‘What Nairobi do we want to emerge from the crisis?’”
  Nairobi is a traffic-clogged city with pollution levels that are exacerbated by factories, trash fires, diesel generators and indoor cooking stoves. Thousands  die every year  from air pollution.
  This month, the Kenyan government imposed a three-week ban on movement to and from four counties most affected by the coronavirus outbreak, including Nairobi. The East African nation, which had 216 confirmed cases as of Tuesday, also closed schools, banned social and religious gatherings, and imposed a nationwide curfew from dusk to dawn.
  Other countries have also seen skies clear as they enforced strict lockdowns. In India, for example, the formerly smog-veiled peaks of the Himalayas are  now clearly visible  in towns hundreds of miles away.
  Over 650 French sailors from the aircraft carrier Charles de Gaulle have contracted Covid-19, the French defense ministry said on Wednesday.
  With the huge jump in reported cases — 668, up from 50 — about a third of the nearly 2,000 sailors aboard the carrier and its support craft have tested positive.
  The naval group docked in its Mediterranean home port, Toulon, earlier than scheduled last week because of the outbreak, and all sailors aboard were being isolated on military bases.
  As of Tuesday evening, 1,767 sailors, most of them crew members on the Charles de Gaulle, had been tested, but 30 percent were still awaiting results, the defense ministry said.
  Thirty-one sailors are hospitalized in Toulon, one of them in intensive care, the ministry said. It is still unclear how the outbreak started, and France’s Navy command has ordered an investigation.
  In other news from France:
  Romania became the first European Union nation to ban the export of agricultural goods — specifically barley, oats, corn, rice, wheat flour, oilseed and sugar — to countries outside the bloc in order to secure domestic supply during the pandemic.
  The ban, announced on April 9, comes as  global concern grows about food supply chains  and as farmers complain that border lockdowns may keep  seasonal workers from getting to the fields .
  According to Romania’s ban, agricultural products can be sold within the E.U., but only after proof is given that they are not intended for further export, Romanian officials said. The ban was enacted after more than 770,000 tons of wheat was exported in March.
  Prime Minister Ludovic Orban said during a televised cabinet meeting last week that the government “can’t afford to accept that, out of greed, some owners of cereals send them for export, leaving us without wheat.”
  Given that Romania has already harvested and shipped most of its crops for the season that ends in June, it is unclear what effect the ban will have.
  According to the agriculture advisory firm  UkrAgroConsult , the measure was needed because of increasing domestic wheat demand, with non-E.U. countries — principally Egypt and Jordan — absorbing more than 60 percent of Romania’s wheat exports. Romania is one of the European Union’s largest exporters of cereal crops.
  The European Commission, however, has questioned Romania’s need to act. The ban will last until the end of the country’s state of emergency, which was extended on Tuesday for at least a month.
  Romania, which has enacted strong measures to try to limit the spread of the virus, has so far escaped the worst of the pandemic. As of Tuesday afternoon, the country had 6,879 confirmed cases and 346 deaths. But because just 70,097 tests have been conducted, infections are likely to be higher.
  Spain’s partial return to work this week — a gradual loosening of restrictions on movement — brought hopes of an easing of economic worries but also sparked a fierce debate over whether the measures have come too soon. 
  The coronavirus is still claiming hundreds of lives each day, though it has leveled off in recent days from the peak of the outbreak. But in practice, the return to work has amounted to a trickle rather than a flood of employees, many who are commuting back to their workplaces with mixed emotions. 
  “I don’t agree with it, but what else can you do?” said a 52-year-old electrician who asked to be identified only by his first name, José, as he waited at a nearly empty subway station in Barcelona. “If my bosses call me, and I say no, they won’t call me again.”
  Some factory workers and those employed on construction sites and in e-commerce have been allowed to return to their jobs after a two-week halt implemented to stem the spread of the virus. The outbreak  overloaded Spain’s health care system  and has claimed more than 18,500 lives in the country. The Spanish authorities reported 523 new deaths on Wednesday, in line with dropping death tolls reported in previous days. 
  The broader lockdown rules are still in place, and most Spaniards are allowed to leave their homes only to buy groceries or walk their pet. The authorities are investigating whether former Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy broke such rules after he was caught on camera exercising outdoors.
  “It’s going to be long and painful, but we need to résumé one day or another,” Andres Mongui, a construction worker at the Sagrada Familia basilica in Barcelona, said on Tuesday after his first day back at work.
  A zoo in northern Germany has drawn up a drastic contingency plan if the financial strain caused by the government-ordered shutdown does not ease up soon: Slaughter some animals and feed them to others.
  Verena Kaspari, the director of the zoo, Tierpark Neumünster, told the German news agency D.P.A. that such measures would be carried out only as a last resort.
  “If — and this is really the worst, worst case of all — if I no longer have any money to buy feed, or if it should happen that my feed supplier is no longer able to deliver due to new restrictions, then I would slaughter animals to feed other animals,” Ms. Kaspari was quoted as saying.
  She could not be immediately reached for comment on Wednesday, but the zoo confirmed the comments.
  The zoo, an hour’s drive north of Hamburg, relies largely on paying visitors but had to close on March 15 because of a nationwide shutdown.
  “We are not getting any city funds, and all the state funds we have applied for so far have not yet arrived,” Ms. Kaspari told the news service. 
  No details about the plan — like which animals would be slaughtered and which would be saved — were available. But the zoo said that a polar bear named Vitus would be the last one to go.
  As the authorities around Europe  weigh reopening their countries , one small nation sticks out for its outsize number of coronavirus deaths: Belgium, population 11.5 million.
  With 4,440 deaths from the virus as of Wednesday, or 383.1 per million residents, Belgium has the second-highest death rate in the bloc, trailing only Spain.
  The Belgian authorities say their method of counting victims partly explains the high rate. Unlike Italy, France and others, Belgium includes those suspected of having died from the virus, even if they had not been formally tested.
  One key metric that puts Belgium’s death rate in context, experts say, is population density. A better benchmark for Belgium is its neighbor the Netherlands, which has recorded 2,945 deaths, or 171.9 per million.
  Despite the dire picture, Belgian hospitals have weathered the crisis relatively well, but critics say that the government has neglected nursing homes, where nearly half the deaths were recorded.
  The Belgian National Security Council is expected to say on Wednesday whether a relatively lax lockdown will be extended beyond May 3.
 