This briefing has ended.  Read our global live coverage on the coronavirus pandemic here .
  The coronavirus continued its punishing march on Tuesday as more United States governors ordered their citizens to stay at home, more states pleaded for rapidly diminishing stocks of emergency supplies, and more experts predicted that the devastating economic effects of the pandemic could stretch into next year. 
  In Florida, the state’s Republican governor belatedly issued  a stay-at-home order for residents  — but only after a morning telephone call with President Trump, who later said he still had no plans for a similar national directive.
  In Washington, Democrats and Republicans in Congress, as well as President Trump, are increasingly looking toward enacting  a huge new infrastructure plan  that could create thousands of jobs. 
  And in New York, where hundreds of new deaths  pushed the tristate region’s toll past 2,300 , Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo pleaded for a supplies for his overwhelmed hospitals and desperate health care workers. “Really, the only hope for a state at this point is the federal government’s capacity to deliver,” Mr. Cuomo said.
  The problem is that the federal government has nearly emptied its emergency stockpile of protective medical supplies like masks, gowns and gloves, according to a senior administration official, and some states desperate for much-needed ventilators received them only to discover that  the machines did not work .
  More bad news was expected Thursday. The Department of Labor reported last week that more than three million people filed for unemployment from March 15 to March 21, the largest single-week increase in American history.
  This Thursday’s number, which reflects claims filed last week, could rise to 5.6 million, according to  an analysis  of Google search data by the economists Paul Goldsmith-Pinkham of Yale and Aaron Sojourner of the University of Minnesota.
  If these forecasts are accurate,  there will be as many claims in two weeks as in the first six months of the Great Recession. 
  At the same time, fears are growing that the downturn could be far more punishing and long lasting than initially feared — potentially enduring into next year, and even beyond.
  “This is already shaping up as the deepest dive on record for the global economy for over 100 years,” said Kenneth S. Rogoff, a Harvard economist. “Everything depends on how long it lasts, but if this goes on for a long time, it’s certainly going to be the mother of all financial crises.”
  Mayor Eric Garcetti of Los Angeles on Wednesday urged all the city’s residents to use homemade face coverings when in public or interacting in public. 
  “This isn’t an excuse to suddenly all go out,” he said during a  news conference , “but when you have to go out, we are recommending that we use nonmedical grade masks, or facial coverings.” 
  Mr. Garcetti stressed that Angelinos use cloth face coverings, and not surgical and N95 masks, which are reserved for first-responders and medical workers. “This could save or cost a doctor or nurse their life, so we need to protect them,” he said. 
  The directive, he said, was in line with guidance from Gov. Gavin Newsom and Dr. Barbara Ferrer, the director of Los Angeles County’s Public Health Department. 
  In a  tweet , Mr. Garcetti also referred to new data that suggests  many who are infected are not symptomatic . 
  As of Wednesday,  California had 9,599 cases of coronavirus  and 206 deaths. Los Angeles County had 3,518 cases and 65 deaths.
  It may be harder than initially thought for  millions of Americans to get the stimulus payments  they’ve been promised.
  Low-income taxpayers and others who are usually not required to file a tax return will have to do so if they want their stimulus payments, according to guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service.
  Until an abrupt reversal on Wednesday night, the guidance also applied to Social Security recipients who did not submit tax returns. That guidance  had been a surprise  to  policy experts and advocates  for seniors because the legislation signed by President Trump gave the Treasury explicit permission to use Social Security databases — and the payment information they contain — to push payments to people automatically, without their needing to do anything else.
  On Wednesday evening, the Treasury Department backtracked and said that Social Security beneficiaries who do not typically file returns will receive their payments automatically after all. They will get their payments as a direct deposit or by paper check, depending on how they normally get their benefits, Treasury officials said in a statement.
  Sharon Parrott, senior vice president for federal policy and program development with the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, said that she was pleased about the reversal and that she hoped the Treasury would do the same thing for other people in government databases whose eligibility is easy to confirm, like many poor individuals with disabilities and veterans receiving pensions.
  People in those situations will still need to file returns to receive their payments. The I.R.S. guidance acknowledged the potential complexity for low-income Americans, and the agency said it would “soon” offer instructions on its website for filing a 2019 tax return that contained “simple, but necessary, information including their filing status, number of dependents and direct deposit bank account information.”
  The federal government has nearly emptied its emergency stockpile of protective medical supplies as state governors continue to plea for protective gear for desperate hospital workers, according to a senior administration official. 
  The official said the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delivered more than 11.6 million N95 masks, 5.2 million face shields, 22 million gloves and 7,140 ventilators, exhausting the emergency stockpile. 
  The official said there was a “tiny slice” of personal protective equipment left over that is being preserved for emergency medical workers for the federal government. 
  While there is no more personal protective equipment in the stockpile left over for the states, the senior official said the administration still has more than 9,400 ventilators ready to be deployed. 
  The dwindling resources have forced the federal government to compete with states and private companies for valuable medical gear across the world. Governors, meanwhile, have continued to try to find ways to scavenge medical supplies for hospital workers exposed to the worsening pandemic. 
  “Really, the only hope for a state at this point is the federal government’s capacity to deliver,” Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York said Wednesday, going on to discuss the powers  that the Defense Production Act , a Korean War-era law, gives the president to procure vital equipment.
  Mr. Cuomo noted that while much of the discussion about the act had been about making ventilators, which are complex to build, it could also be used for other gear
  “Look, you have a shortfall on gowns,” he said. “American companies can make gowns — they’re not like wedding gowns, they’re like paper gowns. Make the gowns, make the gloves, make the masks. You know, why are we running out of these basic supplies?”
  New regulations could make it even harder for hospitals and clinics outside of China to obtain  scarce N95 respirators and other personal protection equipment .
  China, the world’s dominant producer of such equipment, imposed export rules effective on Wednesday. The goal is to improve quality controls for its exports of medical supplies,  after European governments complained  of substandard masks and unreliable test kits from China.
  Under the new rules, which also cover exports of  much-needed ventilators , companies will only be allowed to export after proving to Chinese authorities that their products meet Chinese regulatory standards that are equivalent to overseas standards.
  Florida’s coronavirus cases kept ballooning, especially in the dense neighborhoods of Miami and Fort Lauderdale. Hospitals in Fort Myers and Naples begged for donations of masks and other protective equipment. Young people started to die.
  And still, Gov. Ron DeSantis resisted. The man entrusted with keeping many of the country’s grandparents safe did not want to dictate that all Floridians had to stay at home.
  What it took for Mr. DeSantis to change his mind on Wednesday and finally issue a statewide order were a phone call with President Trump and a grave reckoning. A day earlier, the White House had projected how many American lives might be lost —  up to 240,000  — without a national commitment to immediate, drastic action in every state.
  For Mr. DeSantis, a 41-year-old first-term Republican governor considered a contender for higher political office, relenting was an acknowledgment that the Florida economy, so reliant on tourism, would inevitably grind to a halt because of the virus. Without statewide measures, recovery from the pandemic might only take longer.
  “People aren’t just going to go back to work” by April 15, Mr. DeSantis said at a news conference in Tallahassee, the state capital, calling the stringent social-distancing orders that take effect on Friday “a national pause button.”
  Thirty-seven states  have adopted statewide orders  for people to stay at home, including most recently Georgia and Mississippi. The full scale of the virus threat delivered by the White House was a powerful new message to conservative governors who have been following the president’s lead.
  Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the nation’s leading expert on infectious diseases, who has become a regular at President Trump’s coronavirus briefings,  will receive enhanced personal security  after receiving threats following his repeated pleas for Americans to help slow the spread of the deadly pandemic, officials said on Wednesday.
  Dr. Fauci has been the Trump administration’s most outspoken advocate of social distancing rules that have shuttered the nation’s schools, forced businesses to close, kept people in their homes and battered the United States economy.
  That has made him a  target of online conspiracy theorists  who have accused Dr. Fauci, a longtime scientist and civil servant who has served presidents of both parties, of trying to undermine Mr. Trump during a year in which the president is fighting for re-election.
  The Department of Health and Human Services granted the enhanced personal security for Dr. Fauci, 79, after the Justice Department signed off on a request for extra agents to guard him, officials said. Alex M. Azar II, the health and human services secretary, had grown worried that the threats against the doctor were increasing as more of the country shut down in response to the coronavirus.
  Fears are growing that the global downturn could be far more punishing and long lasting than initially feared — potentially enduring into next year, and even beyond — as governments intensify restrictions on business to halt the spread of the pandemic, and fear of the virus impedes consumer-led economic growth.
  “This is already shaping up as the deepest dive on record for the global economy for over 100 years,” said Kenneth S. Rogoff, a Harvard economist and co-author of “This Time Is Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly,” a history of financial crises. “Everything depends on how long it lasts, but if this goes on for a long time, it’s certainly going to be the mother of all financial crises.”
  Stocks on Wall Street tumbled, with the S&P 500 closing down more than 4 percent, bringing its decline over two days to 6 percent, as investors braced for worsening economic conditions ahead.
  The economic readings continue to worsen as well. On Wednesday, surveys of manufacturing and  factory activity  in the United States, Europe and Japan showed activity slowing to levels not seen in a decade or more. In the United States, factory orders and employment measures fell to their lowest since 2009, the Institute for Supply Management said.
  In Washington, there was growing concern that the $2 trillion stimulus package enacted last week could be insufficient. Democrats and Republicans in Congress, as well as President Trump, are increasingly looking toward enacting a huge new infrastructure plan that could create thousands of jobs. 
  Speaker Nancy Pelosi and senior Democrats outlined  their infrastructure priorities  on Wednesday, ranging from expanding rural broadband to rebuilding the nation’s roads and waterways, for what will likely become part of a broader legislative package to help boost the American economy during the spread of the pandemic. Mr. Trump  endorsed the prospect  of an infrastructure program on Twitter early Tuesday morning, saying that given low interest rates, it should be “VERY BIG & BOLD, Two Trillion Dollars, and be focused solely on jobs and rebuilding the once great infrastructure of our Country!”
  Mr. Trump campaigned in 2016 on a promise to launch a $1 trillion infrastructure initiative, and Democrats and Republicans have long called for such an effort. But the president has clashed with Democrats over how to pay for such a plan, and attempts to transform the bipartisan aspirations into action have fallen short so many times that the phrase “Infrastructure Week” has become  something of a joke in Washington . 
  It remains to be seen whether lawmakers and the White House can reach agreement now, although the crisis has created a new willingness among Republicans to embrace costly and far-reaching government programs of the sort they typically resist. 
  Many  Americans are asking for help for the first time in their lives  — from nail technicians in Los Angeles to airport workers in Fort Lauderdale, from bartenders in Phoenix to former reality show contestants in Minnesota.
  “I’ve never had to actually do this,” Dalen Lacy, a 27-year-old father of two, said as he pulled into a food bank in southern Dallas, after he lost his warehouse job and saw his hours at 7-Eleven slashed amid the pandemic. “But I’ve got to do what I’ve got to do for my kids.”
  As the first of the month rolled around there were looming questions about  which bills households and companies would be able to pay  — including the  rent .
  President Trump has repeatedly assured Americans that the federal government is holding 10,000 ventilators in reserve to ship to the hardest-hit hospitals around the nation as they struggle to keep the most critically ill patients alive.
  But what federal officials have neglected to mention is that thousands more of the lifesaving devices are unavailable, after the contract to maintain the government’s stockpile lapsed late last summer, and a contracting dispute meant that a new firm did not begin its work until late January. By then,  the coronavirus crisis  was already underway.
  The revelation came in response to inquiries to the Department of Health and Human Services after state officials reported that some of the ventilators they received were not operational, stoking speculation that the administration had not kept up with the task of maintaining the stockpile.
  In fact, the contract with a company that was maintaining the machines expired at the end of last summer, and a contract protest delayed handing the job to Agiliti, a Minneapolis-based provider of medical equipment services and maintenance. Agiliti was not given the $38 million task until late January, when the scope of the global coronavirus crisis was first becoming clear.
  It is not known whether problems with the ventilators predated the contract lapse, but maintenance of the machines did halt. That delay may become a potentially deadly lapse.
  House Democrats on Wednesday called for the creation of an independent panel to investigate the Trump administration’s response to the novel coronavirus — once the pandemic subsides.
  The panel would be akin to the one that was formed to examine the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2011.
  “It is clear that we, as a nation, are at another inflection point,” Representative Bennie Thompson, Democrat of Mississippi and the chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, said in a statement announcing he had introduced a bill to form a coronavirus commission. “Americans today will again demand a full accounting of how prepared we were and how we responded to this global public health emergency. Americans will need answers on how our government can work better to prevent a similar crisis from happening again.”
  Representative Adam Schiff, Democrat of California and the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said Wednesday that he was also drafting legislation modeled to create a 9/11-style commission that would investigate once the country had moved past the coronavirus.”
  “After Pearl Harbor and 9/11, we looked at what went wrong to learn from our mistakes,” Mr. Schiff  wrote on Twitter . “Once we’ve recovered, we need a nonpartisan commission to review our response and how we can better prepare for the next pandemic.”
  The 9/11 commission, a bipartisan panel, was formed in 2002 and tasked with preparing “a full and complete account of the circumstances” surrounding the attacks, as well as recommendations designed to guard against future attacks.
  It is unclear whether Republicans or Mr. Trump would support the formation of a similar panel to scrutinize his administration’s handling of the virus.
  While political leaders have locked their borders, scientists have been shattering theirs, creating a  global collaboration unlike any in history . Never before, researchers say, have so many experts in so many countries focused simultaneously on a single topic and with such urgency. Nearly all research, other than anything related to coronavirus, has ground to a halt.
  Normal imperatives like academic credit have been set aside. Online repositories make studies available months ahead of journals. Researchers have  identified and shared  hundreds of viral genome sequences. More than 200  clinical trials  have been started, bringing together hospitals and laboratories around the globe.
  On a recent morning, for example, scientists at the University of Pittsburgh discovered that a ferret exposed to Covid-19 particles had developed a high fever — a potential advance toward animal vaccine testing. Under ordinary circumstances, they would have started work on an academic journal article.
  “But you know what? There is going to be plenty of time to get papers published,” said Paul Duprex, a virologist leading the university’s vaccine research. Within two hours, he said, he had shared the findings with scientists around the world on a World Health Organization conference call. “It is pretty cool, right? You cut the crap, for lack of a better word, and you get to be part of a global enterprise.”
  Dr. Duprex’s lab in Pittsburgh is collaborating with the Pasteur Institute in Paris and the Austrian drug company Themis Bioscience. The consortium has received funding from the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovation, a Norway-based organization financed by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and a group of governments, and is in talks with the Serum Institute of India, one of the largest vaccine manufacturers in the world.
  This year’s United Nations-sponsored climate talks, widely regarded as the most important climate meeting of the last four years, were postponed on Wednesday because of the coronavirus pandemic. The session, which had been scheduled to take place in Glasgow from Nov. 9 to 19, was postponed to 2021.
  [Analysis:  The coronavirus inflicts its own kind of terror .] 
  The conference venue in Glasgow, an arena where tens of thousands of delegates from around the world were to have gathered, is being turned into a field hospital for people with Covid-19. Covid patients are also being housed in the convention center in Madrid where the Conference of Parties, as the session is called, took place last December; Spain has one of the world’s largest outbreaks.
  A review of hundreds of hours of programming and social media traffic from Jan. 1 through mid-March — when the White House started urging people  to stay home and limit their exposure  to others — shows that doubt, cynicism and misinformation about the virus took root among many of Mr. Trump’s boosters in the right-wing news media as the number of confirmed cases in the United States grew.
  It was during this lull — before the human and economic toll became undeniable — when the story of the coronavirus among the president’s most stalwart defenders evolved into the kind of us-versus-them clash that Mr. Trump has waged for much of his life.
  Now, with the nation’s economic and physical health in clear peril, Mr. Trump and many of his allies on the airwaves and online have pivoted, assigning blame for the crisis to familiar enemies in the Democratic Party and the news media.
  But the pervasiveness of the early denial among many of the president’s followers, and their sharp pivot to finding fault with an old foe once the crisis deepened, is a pattern that one expert in the spread of misinformation said resembled a textbook propaganda campaign.
  “The same media that’s been producing this intentional ignorance is saying what they’ve always been saying: ‘We’re right. They’re wrong,’” said Yochai Benkler, the co-author of a book on political manipulation. “But it also permits them to turn on a dime.”
  The United States Coast Guard has told foreign-flagged cruise ships carrying more than 50 people that they must be prepared to care for any sick passengers and crew members at sea for an “indefinite period of time” or to seek medical assistance from other countries as the pandemic rages. 
  The Coast Guard announcement came at a time when dozens of ships were lined up at Port Miami and Port Everglades or waiting offshore because of the    pandemic. Dozens of passengers on some of those ships have shown symptoms that correspond to the coronavirus; on one, the Carnival-owned Holland America Line ship, the Zaandam, at least four people have died. 
  Earlier this week, Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida had said that he would not allow passengers from any ships to disembark, arguing that he could not have “people who are not even Floridians dumped into South Florida using up those valuable resources.”
  On Wednesday, DeSantis reversed himself, saying he was willing to accept Floridians and American citizens on board who needed treatment, but that the state could not afford to expend its limited resources on travelers from other countries. 
  The Coast Guard bulletin, published on March 29 and signed by Rear Admiral E.C. Jones of the Seventh District, which includes Florida, Georgia, South Carolina and Puerto Rico, said that demand for medical services across the district meant that hospitals in the area were no longer able to take on patients evacuated from ships. 
  While the major cruise lines are headquartered in Miami, they are incorporated in foreign countries with ships carrying those flags: Royal Caribbean is registered in Liberia, Norwegian in Bermuda, and Carnival in Panama.
  As Iran struggles with a devastating coronavirus outbreak, a broken economy and a severe shortage of medical equipment, it says that  American trade sanctions are taking Iranian lives  and has called for the United States to lift them on humanitarian grounds.
  Iran’s plea is gaining traction around the globe, winning support from allies like Russia and China, but also the European Union, the United Nations secretary general, rights groups and nearly three dozen members of Congress, who have appealed to the Trump administration to suspend the sanctions for as long as Iran is battling the coronavirus.
  Iran has confirmed more than 47,000 cases and more than 3,000 deaths, although public health experts estimate the real toll to be several times higher.
  [Analysis:  The autocrats’ dilemma: You can’t arrest a virus .] 
  “We had always said the sanctions are unjust but coronavirus revealed this injustice to the world,” Foreign Minister Javad Zarif said in a recent video message, which he began by removing a surgical mask from his face with blue latex gloves. He called the sanctions “economic terrorism.”
  The issue raises questions about the collision of punishing American sanctions with a deadly pandemic, including whether Iran is trying to exploit the crisis to achieve a long-held goal of lifting sanctions, and whether the United States is using the virus to squeeze Iran beyond what sanctions alone could do.
  Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in a tweet on Saturday that Iran’s “effort to lift U.S. sanctions isn’t about fighting the pandemic. It’s about cash for the regime leaders.” 
  Five weeks ago, when there were  60 confirmed cases  of  the coronavirus  in the United States, Mr. Trump expressed little alarm.  “This is a flu,” he said . “This is like a flu.” He was still likening it to an ordinary flu as late as Friday.
  By Tuesday, however, with  more than 187,000 recorded cases in the United States  and more Americans having been killed by the virus than by the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, the president’s assessment had rather drastically changed. “It’s not the flu,” he said. “It’s vicious.”
  The grim-faced president who appeared in the White House briefing room for more than two hours on Tuesday evening beside charts showing death projections of hellacious proportions was coming to grips with a reality he had long refused to accept. At a minimum, the charts predicted that  100,000 to 240,000 Americans would die  — and only if the nation abided by stringent social restrictions that would choke the economy and impoverish millions.
  A crisis that Mr. Trump had repeatedly asserted was “under control” and hoped would “miraculously” disappear has  come to consume his presidency , presenting him with a challenge that he seems only now to be seeing more clearly.
  The numbers publicly outlined on Tuesday had forced him over the weekend  to reverse his plan  to  reopen the country by Easter , but they were hardly new or surprising. Experts have been warning of a possibility like this for weeks. But more than ever before, Mr. Trump seemed to acknowledge them.
  “I want every American to be prepared for the hard days that lie ahead,” the president said, the starkest such effort he has made to prepare the country for the expected wave of disease and death. “We’re going to go through a very tough two weeks.”
  Laundry, grocery shopping, even walking the dog is fraught with challenges these days. The key to accomplish any essential task is a little preparation, levelheaded thinking and a lot of hand washing before and after. (A few anti-bacterial wipes can’t hurt either.)
  President Trump on Wednesday addressed the shifting discussion among health authorities over whether the broader public should begin wearing face masks to reduce transmission of coronavirus. 
  “I don’t see where it hurts,” he said of even healthy people wearing masks, adding that where they weren’t available, people could instead wear scarves. 
  “What I do see people doing now is using scarfs, and I think in a certain way, depending on the fabric, in a certain way a scarf is better,” he said. 
  The  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s current guidance says that for health care workers , “caution should be exercised when considering” scarves and other homemade masks.
  In recent days, there has been  growing public debate  about whether most people should wear face masks amid evidence that as many as a quarter of those infected with the coronavirus do not have symptoms of the illness. The World Health Organization and the C.D.C. have repeatedly said that ordinary citizens do not need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing.
  And as health care workers around the world face shortages of N95 masks and protective gear, public health officials have warned people not to hoard masks, a concern Mr. Trump echoed during the news conference.
  As the grim roster of the dead across Europe grows by thousands daily, the reports of young and otherwise healthy people succumbing to the virus have stoked grief across the continent.
  In the past week, the deaths of a 12-year-old in Belgium, a 13-year-old in Britain, and a 16-year-old in France have drawn attention to the fact that, while it is rare for teenagers to become seriously ill, it can still happen.
  Most fatalities are in older patients with underlying health problems, but they are far from the only victims.
  On Monday, a 13-year-old in Britain, Ismail Mohamed Abdulwahab, died after being admitted to the hospital days earlier and  testing positive for the disease .
  A post on a fund-raising website set up by a family friend said that the teenager had no previously known health issues.
  “Sadly, he died without any family members close by due to the highly infectious nature of Covid-19,”  the post read. 
  A 12-year-old girl in Belgium died after catching the coronavirus,  Belgian officials said on Tuesday , but they did not say whether she had other health issues before her illness.
  “It is a rare event, but one that devastates us,” Emmanuel André, a spokesman for the Belgian coronavirus response center, said during a news conference on the spread of the disease.
  “It’s emotionally challenging because it affects a child, and it also affects the scientific community,” Mr. André said.
  “That’s it,” he said, visibly emotional as he ended the daily update.
  French news outlets reported the death of a 16-year-old,  named in Le Parisien only as Julie , as another victim of the disease.
  “We must stop believing that this only affects the elderly,” her older sister, named as Manon, told the news outlet. “No one is invincible.”
  Taiwan announced on Wednesday that it would donate 10 million surgical masks to the United States and other countries, a gesture intended to highlight its success in combating the coronavirus and its exclusion from the world’s leading international health body.    
  Joanne Ou, the spokeswoman for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said Taiwan would donate two million masks to American front-line medical workers, in addition to the 100,000 masks per week it had previously pledged.
  “It is a small gesture by Taiwan as a responsible country,” Ms. Ou said in an interview. “It is the least we can do, especially during these challenging times.”
  Taiwan, which has a population of 23 million, is now manufacturing 13 million masks per day. 
  The government is hoping that its gesture of good will at a time of international crisis will spotlight the country’s exclusion from the World Health Organization. China insists it controls the island, and refuses to allow any United Nations organizations, including the W.H.O., to recognize its autonomy. 
  As of Tuesday, Taiwan had  only 322 reported coronavirus cases and five deaths . But China’s government insists Taiwan’s numbers should be included in its tally. 
  In addition to the United States-bound shipment, Taiwan will send seven million masks to European countries and one million to the 15 remaining countries that officially recognize its government.
  On Monday, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo  expressed support  for Taiwan’s observer status in the W.H.O.’s decision-making body, the World Health Assembly. That followed President Trump’s signing of the TAIPEI Act, which calls for the United States to support Taiwan’s push for inclusion in international organizations.
  The International Monetary Fund has declared that the world economy has now entered a recession and recovery is unlikely until 2021. As many as 25 million jobs could simply disappear and the world could lose some $3.4 trillion in labor income. More than 1.5 billion students are currently out of school or university, representing 87 percent of the world’s children and young people, and about 60 million teachers are no longer in the classroom.
  That is just a sampling of the radical ways the virus and the fight to slow its spread are reshaping the world,  according to a United Nations report. 
  “Covid-19 is the greatest test that we have faced together since the formation of the United Nations,” António Guterres, the secretary general of the United Nations, said on Wednesday.
  The report stated, “This is the moment to dismantle trade barriers, maintain open trade, and re-establish supply chains.”
  “Tariff and nontariff measures, as well as export bans, especially those imposed on medicinal and related products, would slow countries’ action to contain the virus,” the study added. “Import taxes or restrictions on medical supplies need to be waived.”
  The report called for “a large-scale, coordinated and comprehensive multilateral response amounting to at least 10 percent of global G.D.P.”
  The Trump administration  has decided against reopening  the Affordable Care Act’s Healthcare.gov marketplaces to new customers, despite broad layoffs and growing fears that people will be uninsured for the coronavirus.
  The option to reopen markets, in what is known as a special enrollment period, would have made it easier for people who have recently lost jobs or who had already been uninsured to obtain health insurance. The administration has established such special enrollment periods in the past, typically in the wake of natural disasters.
  The administration had been considering the action for several weeks, and Mr. Trump mentioned such conversations in a recent news briefing. But according to a White House official, those discussions are now over. The news of the decision was  previously reported  by Politico.
  Under current law, people who lose job-based insurance already qualify to enroll for health insurance on the marketplaces, but are required to provide proof that they lost their coverage. A special enrollment period would have made it easier for such people to enroll, because it would not require that paperwork. It also would have provided a new option for people who chose not to buy health insurance this year but want it now.
  Eleven states and the District of Columbia have established special enrollment periods to allow people to obtain new insurance coverage. Those states control their own marketplaces. But federal action would have been required to allow customers to re-enter the markets in the 37 states with markets run by Healthcare.gov.
  President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines threatened on Wednesday to have the police and the military shoot people protesting the nation’s  lockdown  orders affecting millions of people.
  “Now is the time to set an example to everybody,” he said in a late-night address. “I am not used to being challenged. Not me. Let this be a warning to all. Follow the government this time. It is critical that we have order.”
  Mr. Duterte has locked down the Philippines’ largest and most populous island, Luzon, restricting travel to and from the region, which includes Manila, the capital. Most of the island’s 50 million people have been ordered to stay home, and most work and school has been suspended.
  Earlier Wednesday, the police arrested about 20 people from a poor community who had defied the lockdown measures to protest for access to food and other essentials. 
  “My orders to the police and the military, including to the village chiefs, is that if a commotion breaks out and they put up a fight that puts your life in danger, shoot them dead,” Mr. Duterte said.
  The threat of violence follows years of similar warnings from Mr. Duterte, who has overseen a drug war that  has left at least 6,600 people dead , an official toll that human rights groups say grossly understates the real tally.
  Senator  Bernie Sanders  called Wednesday for Wisconsin, the only state forging ahead with an in-person primary this month, to postpone. His comments came a day after his rival, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.,  said it was “hard to envision”  the Democratic National Convention taking place in July as scheduled. 
  The uncertainty in the political calendar has rippled around the country. Also on Wednesday, West Virginia became the 15th state  to postpone its nominating contest , from May 12 to June 9, bringing the number of states that have done so to 15. 
  In Wisconsin, where the primary is scheduled for April 7,    Republican lawmakers have blocked a proposal from Gov. Tony Evers to send out mailed ballots. Mr. Evers is planning to deploy the National Guard to work at polling places. 
  In a statement, Mr. Sanders said that the state should follow the advice of public health experts to promote social distancing. 
  “People should not be forced to put their lives on the line to vote,” Mr. Sanders said.
  Before the coronavirus upended the campaign, Sanders aides  were looking toward Wisconsin  as a key state for the senator. But  a poll published Wednesday  showed Mr. Biden with a big lead there.
  A dangerous overreaction of the immune system in some coronavirus patients is pointing to potentially useful drug treatments.
  Doctors in China reported this week that the  malaria drug  hydroxychloroquine helped to speed the recovery of a small number of patients who were mildly ill.
  Cough, fever and pneumonia went away faster, and the disease seemed less likely to turn severe in people who received hydroxychloroquine than in a comparison group not given the drug. The  new study  involved just 62 patients and was not peer-reviewed, but it did have a control group.
  It’s not yet clear how the drug could be helping, but hydroxychloroquine is known to dial back an overactive immune system. In laboratory studies, it can also stop the virus from invading cells.
  A particular immune-system overreaction, called a  cytokine storm , has become all too common in the coronavirus pandemic. Cytokines are molecules that signal cells to marshal an immune response. Usually, the stronger this immune response, the stronger the chance of vanquishing the infection, which is partly why younger people are  less vulnerable over all  to coronavirus. But in some cases, the immune system continues to release cytokines that keep the body on an exhausting full alert. In their misguided bid to keep the body safe, these cytokines attack multiple organs including the lungs and liver, and may eventually lead to death.
  A growing number of doctors say tocilizumab, a drug sometimes used to soothe an immune system in distress, has helped some coronavirus patients recover. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration recently granted approval to the pharmaceutical company Roche to test the drug in hundreds of people with coronavirus infection.
  Doctors are also looking at a drug called anakinra, which mutes one type of cytokine. They could also turn to corticosteroids, which broadly turn down the entire immune response.
  With the outbreak not projected to  peak  in New York, the hardest-hit state, until the end of April, when it threatens to overwhelm the health care system, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo made another plea Wednesday for help from the federal government.
  At a news conference where he announced that another 391 people in the state had died of the virus over the last day, bringing the state’s total to 1,941, and the tri-state region’s to 2,381, Mr. Cuomo said that the state was still struggling to get the ventilators and other medical supplies it needs.
  “Really, the only hope for a state at this point is the federal government’s capacity to deliver,” Mr. Cuomo said, going on to discuss the powers that the Defense Production Act, a Korean War-era law, gives the president to procure vital equipment.
  In recent days a chorus of governors from across the political spectrum have  publicly challenged the Trump administration’s assertion  that the United States is well stocked and well prepared to test people for the virus and care for the sickest patients. In many cases, the governors said, the country’s patchwork approach had left them bidding against one another for supplies. 
  Gov. Larry Hogan of Maryland, a Republican, said on Tuesday that his state was “flying blind” in the fight against the coronavirus because officials did not have enough tests. When asked  during an NPR interview  about Mr. Trump’s recent comments suggesting that a chronic lack of test kits was no longer a problem in the United States, Mr. Hogan did not mince words: “Yeah, that’s just not true.”
  Gov. Ned Lamont of Connecticut, a Democrat, said on Tuesday that it was “disturbing” to learn that a national stockpile of medical supplies was running empty.
  “We are on our own,” he said.
  As the crisis has grown more dire across the country, Mr. Cuomo’s briefings, which have become a daily staple of the national news and  raised his political profile , have taken on a broader purview.
  On Wednesday, the governor again emphasized the regional coordination between his state, New Jersey and Connecticut, before noting that the virus was spreading more rapidly in other states, including California, Michigan and Florida.
  And he urged Americans even in states that had not yet been hit hard by the virus to take it seriously. 
  “So, to the extent people watch their nightly news in Kansas and say, well, this is a New York problem, that’s not what these numbers say. It says it’s a New York problem today. Tomorrow, it’s a Kansas problem and a Texas problem and a New Mexico problem.”
  Mr. Cuomo said that playgrounds in New York City would be ordered closed, because people were not following social distancing rules, but that parks and other open spaces would remain open. And he spoke in emotional terms about learning that his younger brother, Chris Cuomo, the CNN anchor, had the coronavirus. He explained that even though he knew that statistics suggest that his brother would not require hospitalization, it unsettled him. 
  “Even though that’s what all the numbers say, when he told me he had the coronavirus, it scared me,’’ Governor Cuomo said. “It frightened me. Why? Because we still don’t know. We still don’t know. And even if there’s just a one percent, two percent chance — it’s frightening. It is frightening. It frightened me.”
  
 