As many parts of the world, including the United States, explore ways to end stay-at-home orders, countries that had already opened up  are closing down again after renewed spikes in infections . Lebanon on Tuesday became the latest country to reimpose restrictions after experiencing a surge of infections, almost exactly two weeks after it appeared to contain the spread of the virus and began easing up.
  In the U.S., federal health officials  testified at a Senate hearing  on whether the country is truly ready to reopen, as the  death toll surpassed 81,500  on Tuesday. Anthony S. Fauci, the nation’s top infectious-disease expert, warned that “consequences could be really serious” if states move too quickly. Robert Redfield, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, told the committee that social distancing remains “imperative” for Americans.
  
  Here are some significant developments:
  Sign up for our coronavirus newsletter  | Mapping the spread of the coronavirus:  Across the U.S.  |  Worldwide  | Has someone close to you died of covid-19?  Share your story with The Washington Post. 
  Grocery prices showed their biggest monthly increase in nearly 50 years last month, led by rising prices for meat and eggs, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics  reported Tuesday. 
  U.S. consumers paid 4.3 percent more in April for meats, poultry, fish and eggs, 1.5 percent more for fruits and vegetables, and 2.9 percent more for cereals and bakery products, the Labor Department said.
  Overall, consumers paid 2.6 percent more in April for groceries, the largest one-month jump since February 1974.
  The jump in food prices came in a month when more than  20 million Americans lost their jobs , driving one in five households into food insecurity.
  Read more  here .
  While we are understandably consumed with the daily, seemingly unstoppable firehose of news about the most dangerous pandemic in a century, little attention has been paid to the long-term impact of this crisis on the world's most vulnerable children.
  It’s impossible to overstate what this crisis will mean for the pandemic generation. This prolonged, unpredictable and highly contagious disease is upending their education, family lives, social relationships, resiliency and opportunities to pull themselves out of multigenerational cycles of poverty. The result might be a chasmic gap between relatively affluent children and those in poverty deeper than at any other time in modern history.
  There is no doubt that persistent lockdowns and school closings have affected children everywhere. UNICEF reports that more than  91 percent  of the world’s children are impacted by school shutdowns, and at least  117 million children  are at risk of missing vital health care, including critical vaccines. Extensive surveys conducted by  Save the Children  also found that nearly half of all children said they were “worried” and a third reported feeling “scared.”
  Read more  here .
  USA Gymnastics announced Tuesday it will hold no further premier competitions in 2020 because of the health risks posed by the novel coronavirus pandemic.
  Instead, the 2020 U.S. championships, which were scheduled for June 4-7 in Fort Worth, will be held at the same venue June 3-6, 2021.
  Three other major competitions are being postponed until 2021: the GK U.S. Classic; the U.S. championships for rhythmic gymnastics, trampoline and tumbling and acrobatic gymnastics; and the U.S. Olympic trials/
  Read more  here .
  A little-known Virginia-based defense company that was awarded a $55 million federal contract to provide 10 million N95 masks for the U.S. government’s coronavirus response failed to deliver and had its contract canceled Tuesday, according to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
  Panthera Worldwide LLC, whose parent company filed for bankruptcy protection last year, had promised to deliver the much-needed personal protective equipment by May 1, despite having no history of providing such materials to the government. The owners told The Washington Post last month that the company was aiming to deliver the materials two weeks early. Instead, they sought a 10-day extension to May 11 and ultimately did not furnish the items.
  “We are patriots and take pride in our products for the U.S. government, especially during this real medical crisis,” one of the company’s executives, James V. Punelli, wrote in an email on April 15. He also promised the masks would be provided before May 1 “for certain, in full and with a very high-quality product.”
  Punelli and his business partner, Raymond C. Jones, did not respond to requests for comment Tuesday on the contract’s cancellation. An attorney who has represented the men in bankruptcy proceedings, Mark Lindsay, also did not respond to a request for comment.
  Read more here .
  Tensions between groups demanding the end of coronavirus-related restrictions and the officials behind those decisions escalated to a perilous point in Fresno, Calif.
  On Tuesday, Miguel Arias, the Fresno City Council president,  told ABC30  television station that he called the police after an incident involving conservative activists outside of his home. According to  the Fresno Bee , Arias said Ben Bergquam, a known agitator who was arrested last year for trespassing on the grounds of the governor’s mansion, and several others tried to enter his residence while his two children were inside. Following the episode, Fresno police officers were positioned outside the homes of other elected officials, including Mayor Lee Brand.
  A video emerged of the confrontation  on social media and in the clip, which starts after three men have already approached Arias, the councilman can be seen shoving Bergquam on the stairwell while warning him: “Get out of my house.” Another man continues to approach Arias while holding a cellphone to capture the scene and Arias slaps the phone out of his hands. After Arias knocks the phone away, a man off-camera yells “Wow!” and a woman threatens to call 9-1-1.
  Then, Bergquam, who was holding a microphone, turned toward a cameraman at the bottom of the stairs to address the camera.
  Last January,  Bergquam and another activist dressed in serapes and sombreros  encroached on the property of Democratic Gov. Gavin Newsom’s mansion in Sacramento to protest his stance on immigration. On  Bergquam’s website , he describes himself as a “social conservative” who is “politically incorrect.”
  Recently, demonstrators have moved their conflicts from the statehouse to residences. In Indiana, people  rallied outside the governor’s mansion  while in Ohio, a small group gathered near the home of Amy Acton, the top health official in the state. Also last week in Los Angeles, almost 100 protesters appeared outside the home of  Mayor Eric Garcetti  (D).
  Sign up for our Coronavirus Updates newsletter to follow major developments in the pandemic. All stories linked in the newsletter are free to access. 
  Around the world, the coronavirus pandemic has exacerbated preexisting inequalities around race, gender and class, leaving some groups far more at risk and worse off than others.
  The European Network Against Racism is tracking what that looks like in the context of racialized minorities in Europe and mapping out incidents of individual and institutional discrimination related to the pandemic — as well as the few cases in which countries are implementing changes.
  As part of the research, explained ENAR Senior Advocacy Officer Juliana Santos Wahlgren, the Brussels-based network focused on five frequently targeted communities — Roma, migrants, Muslims, Jews and people of African descent – and how they’ve fared in terms of categories like employment, housing, health care, policing, racial profiling and incidents of hate speech before and during the pandemic.
  Their report found that “due to existing racial discrimination and structural barriers,” certain groups have been more likely to lose their jobs or work on the front lines, live in crowded accommodations, face tougher police tactics during lockdowns, and be the target of verbal racism, among other issues examined.
  The map currently tracks incidents reported by media and ENAR members. The organization is also mapping out countries that have worked to expand rights, such as Portugal granting temporary citizenship to migrants during the pandemic to ensure health-care access.
  “In their responses to the pandemic, governments should acknowledge the greater risks and needs of racialised groups and put measures in place to ensure they do not bear the brunt of the pandemic’s impact,” ENAR Chair Karen Taylor  said in a statement .
  The group’s conclusions broadly echo similar findings from the United States and  Britain .
  Amid an avalanche of complaints about airlines refusing to refund tickets for trips canceled because of the novel coronavirus, the U.S. Department of Transportation on Tuesday issued a notice to make travelers aware of their rights and remind carriers of their obligations under consumer protection laws.
  Travelers, who typically file about 1,500 complaints a month with the Transportation Department, filed more than more than 25,000 in March and April, officials said. Many of those complaints were from people angry that airlines had denied them ticket refunds.
  The  “enforcement notice”  issued by the department Tuesday — its second — does not guarantee consumers will receive refunds, but offers them additional information about their rights. It also puts airlines on notice about their obligations to consumers and reminds them they could face consequences for refusing to comply.
  Read more  here .
  New Orleans, which once had the highest covid-19 infection rate in the world, will begin to reopen its economy starting Saturday morning, Mayor LaToya Cantrell announced Tuesday afternoon. With minor exceptions, the city’s plan is similar to the state’s phase one plan, which takes effect Friday.
  The city’s program — dubbed “Safest at Home” to emphasize the existing threat and need for the public to remain cautious — will return a small sense of normalcy to a city robbed of the festive atmosphere that draws millions of tourists this time of year.
  “We’ve gotten to this milestone because of the sacrifices our people have made,” Cantrell said at a news briefing. “We are seeing a reason for hope.”
  Most businesses will be allowed to reopen but will be restricted to 25 percent capacity. Restaurants, barber shops, beauty salons, zoos and museums can only accept customers through a reservation system to assist with contact tracing efforts – a requirement not being imposed in the rest of the state. Churches and movie theaters will be limited to 100 people or 25 percent capacity, whichever number is lowest.
  Bars that don’t serve food, live performance venues, tattoo parlors, spas, casinos and video poker will not be allowed to reopen during the first phase. Cantrell also cautioned the public that they must still wear masks in public and that the prohibition of groups larger than 10 remains in place.
  The city’s health director, Dr. Jennifer Avegno, said that the decision to reopen is based on critical improvements in key categories: testing and healthcare capacities, contact tracing readiness and, in particular, a steady decline in new cases. In early April, the city was experiencing 450 cases a day. There were 25 reported Tuesday.
  Avegno warned, however, that if there is a sudden spike or prolonged increase in cases, the city will not hesitate to reinstate restrictions.
  Former vice president Joe Biden said Tuesday evening during a local TV interview that the next stimulus package should focus entirely on small businesses and include no aid for large companies.
  “We have to continue to move forward with the next phase of the stimulus, but not a dollar to a major corporation,” Biden said on Spectrum Local News in North Carolina. “Not a single dollar. It should be going to main street stores and families to keep them moving forward. And then what we’re going to have to do – we’re going to have to have a genuine recovery.”
  Democrats have been sharply critical about how stimulus money has been spent, saying far too much of the funds have gone to major companies or firms with connections to the Trump administration.
  Biden is doing a series of local TV interviews Tuesday, part of a broader strategy by the campaign to reach voters in key battleground states while not needing to compete head-to-head with President Trump, who frequently drives the cable and network news.
  Sign up for our Coronavirus Updates newsletter to follow major developments in the pandemic. All stories linked in the newsletter are free to access. 
  BEIRUT — As many parts of the world, including the United States, explore ways to ease lockdowns aimed at containing the spread of the coronavirus, countries that had already opened up are closing down again after renewed spikes in infections.
  Such a resurgence of cases had been widely predicted by experts, but these increasing numbers come as a sobering reminder of the challenges ahead as countries chafing under the social and economic burdens of keeping their citizens indoors weigh the pros and cons of allowing people to move around again.
  Lebanon on Tuesday became the latest country to reimpose restrictions after experiencing a surge of infections, almost exactly two weeks after it appeared to contain the spread of the virus and began easing up. The country ordered a four-day, near-complete lockdown to allow officials time to assess the rise in numbers.
  Read more  here .
  France on Monday began its “deconfinement,” relaxing coronavirus-related restrictions after two months of nationwide lockdown. Elementary school students returned to school and nonessential businesses were allowed to reopen. But while commuters crowded onto the Paris metro during rush hour and lines formed outside hair salons, for most of the day, there was still an inescapable feeling of emptiness in the normally bustling French capital.
  Read more  here .
  Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey (R) announced  Tuesday  that the state’s stay-at-home order will still expire Friday, and pools and gyms can begin reopening on Wednesday.
  In a claim heavily criticized by Democrats from his state, Ducey said Arizona has met the criteria issued by the White House and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, so the state can reopen. Ducey  claimed that the data  showed a downward trajectory of positive tests for the coronavirus and there is enough hospital capacity to handle the cases moving forward.
  However, Ducey’s data and graphs of this downward trajectory are facing criticism.
  As of Tuesday, Arizona has reported 11,736 confirmed cases of the virus and 562 fatalities. Martin Quezada, a Democratic state senator,  wrote on Twitter  that the “Governor’s message just now is to ignore the news/facts/data/expert advice and trust my office." Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the nation’s top infectious disease expert, said Tuesday that states will face serious consequences if they reopen too early.
  “I showed a green light today, and it’s a green light to continue to go in the right direction,” Ducey said. “We are clearly on the other side of this pandemic.”
  Ducey also announced that the state would allow major league sporting events to resume, without fans, after May 15.
  However, the handling of Arizona’s reopening plan has faced criticism. Ducey allowed restaurants, brewpubs and bars that serve food to reopen on Monday, nearly two months after they were ordered to close. Immediately, photos showing a crowded C.A.S.A. Tempe, a popular bar and restaurant in Tempe, went viral, sparking widespread criticism on social media.
  Ducey deflected questions about the C.A.S.A. photos on Tuesday, saying that if “we were to celebrate today,” they should celebrate the responsible business owners “who did a fantastic job last night at reopening their business.” Ducey said there are “always outliers” in these situations.
  Sign up for our Coronavirus Updates newsletter to follow major developments in the pandemic. All stories linked in the newsletter are free to access. 
  President Trump has made a series of obviously false claims about the  coronavirus . But at Monday’s news briefing — the first in weeks in which Trump and coronavirus task force officials took questions — he offered perhaps his biggest whopper yet.
  “I think one of the things we’re most proud of is, this just came out — deaths per 100,000 people, death,” Trump said. “So deaths per 100,000 people — Germany and the United States are at the lowest rung of that ladder. Meaning low is a positive, not a negative. Germany, the United States are the two best in deaths per 100,000 people, which frankly, to me, that’s perhaps the most important number there is.”
  It would be perhaps the most important number if it were anywhere close to true.
  Read more  here .
  White House trade adviser Peter Navarro — who repeatedly warned colleagues about the coronavirus in a series of memos earlier this year — is declining to testify before a House panel Thursday about a whistleblower’s complaint that mentions him at length.
  Navarro, the latest figure to draw the interest of lawmakers probing the Trump administration’s handling of the crisis, had been invited to appear before the House Energy and Commerce subcommittee on health.
  But White House spokesman Judd Deere said in a statement Tuesday that Navarro “is declining the invitation based on long-standing principles adhered to by administrations of both parties and supported by” the Department of Justice. The specifics of Deere’s references were unclear.
  Read more  here .
 