
  The United States on Friday reached 60,000 new cases for the first time, and the number ultimately soared to more than 68,000 — setting a single-day record for the seventh time in 11 days,  according to a New York Times database . As outbreaks continued alarming growth in the South and West, officials in two battered states threatened to retreat from reopenings that had followed a national lull in confirmed infections.
  The new cases reported on Friday shattered the record set the day before — 59,886.
  On June 24, the country announced 37,014 new cases, breaking a single-day record that had stood for two months. By Friday, just 16 days later, the peak was at least 84 percent higher.
  At least six states reported single-day records for new cases: Georgia, Utah, Montana, North Carolina, Iowa and Ohio.
  In Georgia and Texas, a governor and a mayor warned that some sort of shutdown might have to be reimposed.
  Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas, which reported record numbers of daily cases four times this week, signaled the possibility of a new economic “lockdown” if the state is unable to reduce the caseloads and hospitalizations that have made it one of the country’s leading hot spots in the pandemic.
  In a TV interview, Mr. Abbott, a Republican, bluntly predicted that “things will get worse” and said that he may take steps even more drastic than his statewide face-mask requirement, which has angered members of his own party.
  “I made clear that I made this tough decision for one reason: It was our last best effort to slow the spread of  Covid-19 ,” he said. 
  In Georgia, which reported a record of more than 4,000 new cases on Friday, Atlanta officials said they were preparing to shift back to “Phase 1” guidelines, which call for residents to largely stay at home.
  The majority of Georgia’s cases have been concentrated in the counties making up the Atlanta metropolitan area.
  Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms of Atlanta, who said that she had tested positive this week, issued a mask mandate in the city on Wednesday and added further limits on large gatherings. It is unclear when the return to Phase 1 might begin.
  Georgia’s growing concerns were also underscored when Gov. Brian Kemp announced that the state was again transforming a convention center in Atlanta into a makeshift medical center as hospitals were filling with patients. 
  A new global record for daily infections was also reached Friday, as the World Health Organization announced that  228,102 new cases  had surfaced around the world, a day after  The Times’s database  reported 223,116 new cases.
  It was the fifth time this month that the global daily number had surpassed 200,000.
  The other nations showing the largest daily increases in cases were Brazil, Mexico, India and South Africa.
  “There is a lot of work still to be done, from countries where there is exponential growth to places that are loosening restrictions and now starting to see cases rise,” Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the director general of the W.H.O., said at a briefing Friday.
  A rising death toll in the United States has raised fears after months of declines.
  Alabama, Arizona, Florida, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Dakota, Texas and Tennessee all set single-day death records this week. The seven-day  death  average in the United States reached 608 on Thursday, up from 471 earlier this month, but still a fraction of the more than 2,200 deaths the country averaged each day in mid-April, when the outbreak in the Northeast was at its worst.
  Federal materials for reopening schools , shared the week President Trump demanded weaker guidelines to do so, said fully reopening schools and universities remained the “highest risk” for the spread of the  coronavirus .
  The 69-page document , obtained by The New York Times and marked “For Internal Use Only,” was intended for federal public health response teams to have as they are deployed to hot spots around the country. But it appears to have circulated the same week that Vice President Mike Pence announced that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention would release new guidelines, saying that the administration did not want them to be “too tough.” It is unclear whether Mr. Trump saw the document, nor is it clear how much of it will survive once new guidance is completed.
  (The cover page of the document is dated July 8, 2019, an obvious typographical error since the novel coronavirus did not exist then.)
  What is clear is that federal health experts are using a road map that is vastly different from what Mr. Trump wanted.
  A breakdown of state plans included in the briefing identified state and university proposals that the task force appeared to see as models. The document identified as “examples of consistency with C.D.C. guidance” institutions like Arizona Western University, which will offer virtual services to students and staff members throughout the fall, and Hampton University, where in-person class sizes and gatherings will be reduced to 50 percent. It also highlights a number of states, like Georgia, where families are offered an option of in-person and virtual classes.
  And as Mr. Trump and Education Secretary Betsy DeVos were trying to pressure schools to comply with their reopening vision, the document was expressly saying the federal government should not override local judgment.
  Groups representing education leaders praised the document.
  “What it tells us is left to its own devices, the C.D.C. can do a pretty good job in compiling a comprehensive document that shows the complexity of what institutions are facing,” said Terry W. Hartle, a senior vice president of the American Council on Education, which represents 1,700 college and university presidents and higher education executives.
  “The good news is, this is very thoughtful and complete,” he added. “The bad news is, it’s never been released.”
  There was nothing particularly festive about Nicola Sturgeon’s recent visit to the Cold Town House, a newly reopened Edinburgh pub, but maybe that was the point. Sipping coffee and surveying plexiglass dividers, Ms. Sturgeon,  the leader of Scotland’s government,  warned customers not to expect the jolly intimacy of nightlife before the pandemic.
  “No beer garden or cafe should feel the same as it did before,” she said.
  As Scotland emerges from a three-month lockdown, it is moving more carefully than neighboring England, a divergence that owes a lot to Ms. Sturgeon’s caution and conviction that England, under Boris Johnson, is taking too many risks in a  headlong rush to resume public life .
  Scotland’s approach has made it a bright spot in  coronavirus-ravaged  Britain. New cases have dwindled to a handful a day, and deaths to a trickle. By contrast, England is still reporting hundreds of new cases and dozens of deaths every day.
  But what happens in England inevitably spills over into Scotland, and the stark contrast in daily numbers has reanimated old grievances for the Scots, who  voted against leaving the United Kingdom  in 2014 but overwhelmingly rejected Britain’s vote to leave the European Union two years later.
  Nationalist sentiment has surged during the pandemic: Fifty-five percent of Scots now favor independence, according to a recent poll.
  Scotland imposed its lockdown on March 23, the same day as England did, but has lifted the restrictions more selectively. It kept pubs closed a few days longer. Unlike England, it requires people to wear face masks in shops and left Spain, a popular holiday destination, off a list of countries to which citizens can travel without isolating themselves upon return.
  “We’re quite stubborn and steadfast because Nicola has handled it elegantly and we’ve seen how England is flapping around,” said Katy Koren, the artistic director of Gilded Balloon, a company that stages outdoor performances during the Edinburgh Festival, which has been canceled this summer.
  The virus is surging in some states that had been making progress after battling earlier outbreaks: On Friday, Ohio reported 1,525 new cases, exceeding the previous single-day record it had set back in April.
  Gov. Mike DeWine of Ohio called the state’s recent increase in cases and hospitalizations “significant” at a news conference on Thursday, and ordered people in several more hard-hit counties to wear masks. The average number of new cases a day there this month is twice what it was last month. The state has recorded more than 62,000 cases and 3,000 deaths since the pandemic began, according to  a Times database .
  Other states are also seeing the virus rebound. Louisiana has been seeing an average of  more than 1,000 new cases a day this month  for the first time since April. Iowa is reporting an average of  more than 400 cases a day  this month for the first time since May.
  On Friday, Salt Lake County, Utah, and Mobile County, Ala., set daily records for infections.
  Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York warned Friday that the state would see a spike in cases because of the spread in other states, weeks after the state managed to rein in  its outbreak , which killed more than 30,000 people in the state.
  “We are going to go through an increase. I can feel it coming,” he said in a radio interview. “There is a certain inevitability to it. It’s going to come back.”
  Under a recent order, travelers from 19 states with rising infection rates are supposed to quarantine for two weeks when visiting New York. But Mr. Cuomo said even that might not be enough to stop the virus from seeping into New York: “It’s like catching water in a screen.”
  Hong Kong, which has been lauded for its aggressive handling of the outbreak, is confronting a third wave of infections, and on Friday shut down its school system.
  The city of seven million people has reported more than 1,400 cases and just seven deaths during the outbreak.  The widespread use of face masks  when the epidemic first broke out — a legacy of the SARS epidemic that ravaged the city in 2003 — was credited with helping contain the virus. Authorities also forced all new arrivals to undergo a strict two-week quarantine. From mid-April through June, Hong Kong recorded very few locally transmitted infections.
  But on Friday officials reported 38 new cases — 32 of which were transmitted locally — prompting the city to shut down schools starting Monday. The practical impact will be limited since most schools go on summer break the week after.
  The city’s education secretary, Kevin Yueng, said he was concerned about the surge in local cases, noting some of them involved schools.
  “After consideration and listening to expert’s advice, we decided that all kindergarten, primary school, secondary schools can start the summer holiday from next Monday,” he said.
  The third wave, which comes after  a second wave of infections surged in March  and was contained by May, was a setback for a city that had  largely returned to normal , with its many restaurants enjoying packed crowds and workers returning to their offices in recent months.
  The latest spike in cases included local clusters linked to a nursing home and diners, causing the Chinese territory to also announce new social-distancing rules following a period of relaxation.
  President Trump and Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the nation’s top infectious disease expert, are continuing to spar over the government’s response to the coronavirus, arguments playing out in media appearances over the past week.
  One of the points of contention is the seriousness of the disease caused by the virus, which has been spreading across the country at its fastest pace yet. Mr. Trump has argued that it is mostly harmless.
  “There were no tests for a new virus, but now we have tested over 40 million people,”  Mr. Trump said in a speech  on July 4. “But by so doing, we show cases, 99 percent of which are totally harmless.”
  In an interview with The Financial Times that was published Friday,  Dr. Fauci said  he was not sure of the source of the data the president was referencing.
  “I’m trying to figure out where the president got that number,” Dr. Fauci said. “What I think happened is that someone told him that the general mortality is about 1 percent. And he interpreted, therefore, that 99 percent is not a problem, when that’s obviously not the case.”
  “Even if it doesn’t kill you, even if it doesn’t put you in the hospital, it can make you seriously ill,” Dr. Fauci said. And he called the pandemic “the big one.”
  On Thursday night, during an interview with Fox News host Sean Hannity, Mr. Trump suggested Dr. Fauci was not credible.
  “Dr. Fauci is a nice man, but he’s made a lot of mistakes,” Mr. Trump said. “A lot of them said, ‘Don’t wear a mask, don’t wear a mask,’” he added. “Now they are saying, ‘Wear a mask.’ A lot of mistakes were made, a lot of mistakes.”
  Mr. Trump was referring to initial guidance early on during the pandemic against wearing a face covering for health precautions. Experts now encourage face masks, and in some parts of the country, wearing them is mandated. Mr. Trump has largely abstained from donning a face covering.
  Face-masked citizens lined up to vote in Singapore on Friday, with plenty of space separating them from each other. Their temperatures had been checked. Before receiving their ballots, they spritzed their hands with sanitizer, and many put on disposable gloves.
  If any country could successfully carry out a  general election during a global pandemic , it was surely Singapore, a rich, manicured city-state with a population that has largely been conditioned to follow the rules.
  The winner was never in doubt, either, even though balloting was extended by two hours to accommodate the long lines.
  But while victory went to the center-right People’s Action Party, which has held power longer than any other elected political party in the world, results released early Saturday showed a surprising slip in its support. Its share of the popular vote fell to 61 percent, a nearly nine-point swing from elections five years ago. The leading opposition party took a record 10 of Parliament’s 93 seats.
  Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, the 68-year-old son of the nation’s founding father, said he would stay at the helm until the coronavirus crisis passed, and he acknowledged his weakened mandate.
  “The results reflect the pain and anxiety that Singaporeans feel in this crisis, the loss of income, the anxiety about jobs,” Mr. Lee said early Saturday morning.
  If calling an election during a pandemic was meant to showcase the steady hand of a party that has used Singapore’s greatest strengths — deep coffers, technocratic professionalism and a belief in science and technology — to battle the coronavirus, the campaign also highlighted divisions in a society that, like many others in the developed world, is struggling with a changing geopolitical and economic landscape.
  The coronavirus has  ripped through crowded dormitories  housing 200,000 foreign laborers, infecting tens of thousands, but Singapore has kept its death toll from the pandemic to just 26 people. Job losses and a looming recession have been blunted by a relief effort costing more than $70 billion, the People’s Action Party said. While Singapore has no minimum wage and at least 10 percent of its households are considered poor by some estimates, extensive public housing for citizens ensures a kind of social safety net, according to the governing party.
  In one month, cases in the U.S. military have more than doubled, according to Pentagon data, a disturbing surge that mirrors a similar trend seen across the country.
  On Friday,  Pentagon statistics  reported 16,637 cases in the entire military. On June 10, that number was just 7,408. Three people have died since March, including a sailor on the aircraft carrier Theodore Roosevelt, which returned to port in the United States earlier this week. More than 380 service members have been hospitalized.
  The trend is likely tied to the military’s persistence on continuing exercises, training courses, and deployments. Increased testing could also be a factor. Late last month more than 80 students at a survival course, known as SERE, tested positive.
  In Australia, where more than a thousand Marines recently started their annual monthslong deployment in Darwin, at least one Marine was found to have the virus, according to a  Marine news release on Friday.  And on the aircraft carrier Abraham Lincoln, docked in San Diego, nearly a dozen sailors have tested positive and around 100 have been isolated.
  In other news from around the United States:
  In March, South Africa imposed one of the world’s  most severe lockdowns  in response to the coronavirus, restricting travel between provinces. This disrupted a deeply important cultural practice for many Black residents in Cape Town:  returning the bodies of family members to the neighboring Eastern Cape Province for burial .
  The new rules around travel for funerals are so complex, and add so much extra expense, that they have become practically insurmountable for many families, according to funeral directors and community leaders in Cape Town.
  For some poorer families, the rules are forcing a choice between breaking tradition and breaking the law.
  “It’s a big trauma,” said Chris Stali, the director of a funeral parlor in Khayelitsha, the informal settlement on the outskirts of Cape Town where Mr. Mweli lived while working in the city.
  While South Africa is now attempting to reopen, and is easing some restrictions, the rules around funerals are still in place. Attendance at funerals is capped at 50, and overnight vigils and body viewings are banned.
  The regulations have been felt especially acutely in Cape Town, the initial epicenter of the country’s outbreak. South Africa now ranks 13th in the world for coronavirus cases and is experiencing an enormous rise.
  In other news from around the world:
  As the daily number of deaths from the coronavirus rises in some of the nation’s most populous states,  signaling a possible end to months of declining death totals nationally , each death will affect an average of nine close family members, according to research published on Friday.
  The  study , published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, aimed to look at what researchers call the “bereavement multiplier” in an effort to understand how many lives can be directly touched by pandemic-related fatalities. The researchers suggest that their findings could help gauge the long-term emotional and societal impact, or “mortality shock,” from the sudden burst of deaths.
  The data, which drew from prior work on the number of connections among family members, was compiled by four researchers, two from Pennsylvania State University and one each from the University of Southern California and the University of Western Ontario.
  The study found that African-Americans, with larger kinship networks, will likely suffer a slightly higher bereavement multiplier of 9.18 close relatives for each person who dies of Covid-19, while each white American who dies will leave behind on average 8.86 grieving relatives.
  A close relative, for purposes of the study, was defined as a grandparent, parent, sibling, spouse or child. The authors reflected on the fact that the pandemic has taken its gravest toll on older Americans.
  “Unsurprisingly, most young Americans who have a relative die will experience a grandparent’s death,” the authors wrote. “Conversely, adults ages 30 to 40 are most likely to lose a parent, whereas older adults are most likely to experience a sibling’s or spouse’s death.”
  As lockdowns and other measures have been taken around the world to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency has continued to move detainees from state to state and deport them. And with them, the virus.
  An investigation by The Times, in collaboration with The Marshall Project, reveals how unsafe conditions and scattershot testing  helped turn ICE into a domestic and global spreader of the virus  — and how pressure from the Trump administration led other countries to take in sick deportees.
  Thirty immigrant detainees described cramped and unsanitary detention centers where social distancing was nearly impossible and protective gear almost nonexistent.
  “ It was like a time bomb,” one Cuban immigrant held in Louisiana said.
  The Times spoke to at least four people who had been deported — to El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti and India — and who had tested positive for the virus shortly after arriving from the United States.
  The governments of 11 countries have confirmed that hundreds of deportees returned home from the United States with the virus. ICE said last week that it was still able to test only a sampling of immigrants before sending them home.
  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention released  a report  last month on pregnant women with Covid-19, suggesting that they might be at higher risk for severe illness. While the study had a large sample size, more than 8,000 women, it raised more questions than it answered, and the results were  difficult to interpret .
  With so many new details about the virus emerging, Christina Caron, a reporter who covers parenting for The New York Times, asks:  why do we still know so little about how the virus affects pregnant women and their babies? 
  The C.D.C. reported that pregnant women with the virus were more likely to be hospitalized, admitted to an intensive care unit and put on a ventilator than infected women who are not pregnant. But researchers lacked data to say whether the pregnant women were hospitalized because of labor and delivery, or because of complications from Covid-19.
  And the data on whether or not infected pregnant women were admitted to intensive care units, or required mechanical ventilation, was missing for about 75 percent of the patients.
  Despite the caveats of the C.D.C. study, it remains a “signal” that pregnant women could be more susceptible to severe symptoms, said Allison Bryant, M.D., a member of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists’ working group on Covid-19 and pregnancy. She added that “it’s not super surprising given what we know about other respiratory illnesses like flu.”
  Researchers in other countries have found similar signals.
  Data gathered from the U.K. Obstetric Surveillance System  showed  in May that 10 percent of 427 pregnant women with the coronavirus admitted to hospitals between March 1 and April 14 needed respiratory support. Three of them died from complications of Covid-19.
  U.S. stocks rose on Friday, and Wall Street was  on track to end a volatile week with another weekly gain .
  The S&P 500 rose about half a percent, after an early dip, while markets in London, Frankfurt and Paris recouped losses to climb about 1 percent. In Asia, news of an apparently widening outbreak of infections in Hong Kong had sent shares skidding.
  Some of the news buoying the U.S. market came from drugmaker Gilead Sciences, which said that remdesivir, an antiviral that it is testing as a Covid-19 treatment, cut mortality risk in patients, and did so across racial and ethnic groups. Companies that stand to benefit the most from a reopening of the economy, and a return to normal behavior by American consumers — like airlines and retailers — fared well.
  Oil prices also reversed early losses, with the American crude benchmark crossing back above $40 a barrel despite a warning from the  International Energy Agency  that surges in the United States and Latin America were “casting a shadow” over the oil market.
  Trading has become more volatile lately over worries about the virus and restrictions that are being reimposed as a result. The market has alternated between gains and losses each day this week, but is on track to end the week with a gain of more than 1 percent.
  The Los Angeles teachers union called on the Los Angeles Unified School District on Friday to keep campuses closed when the semester begins on Aug. 18 and to focus on preparing for distance learning in the fall, the union said in a statement.
  United Teachers Los Angeles said that the spike in coronavirus infections, paired with a lack of resources from state and federal governments for schools to increase public health measures, would not allow schools to reopen safely.
  “It is time to take a stand against Trump’s dangerous, anti-science agenda that puts the lives of our members, our students, and our families at risk,” the union’s president, Cecily Myart-Cruz, said in the statement. “We all want to physically open schools and be back with our students, but lives hang in the balance. Safety has to be the priority. We need to get this right for our communities.”
  The school authorities had no comment as of Friday morning.
  The move by the union comes amid a nationwide debate among teachers, politicians and parents about when to resume in-person learning. Educators have widely noted that online classes are no substitute for the classroom experience, but teachers have also expressed concern for their own health and that of children if students are back in schools too soon.
  After President Trump demanded Tuesday that schools reopen in the fall, the president of the National Education Association, the nation’s largest teachers’ union,  said : “Our No. 1 priority is that we keep our students safe.”
  In a joint statement, the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Federation of Teachers, the National Education Association and The School Superintendents Association, said Friday that schools in places with a high community spread of the virus should not be pushed to reopen, especially if local public health officials have advised otherwise.
  “A one-size-fits-all approach is not appropriate for return to school decisions,” the statement said.
  The associations called on the federal government to provide adequate resources to all schools, saying that withholding funding would further endanger students and teachers and hurt schools financially. Though the best option for children is always to learn in the classroom, the statement said, if public health experts do not deem it safe, online learning should be implemented.
  Once a year, millions of high school seniors in China take the most important test of their lives:  the university entrance exam known as the gaokao .
  This year the usual pressures were compounded by coronavirus restrictions, severe flooding and, in one city, a 4.2-magnitude earthquake.
  More than 10 million students in China began taking the multiday gaokao on Tuesday. Many of their high schools had been closed for months, and the exam itself was delayed by several weeks.
  Anyone taking the gaokao was required to undergo daily temperature checks for 14 days beforehand. And in some cities, students needed to show results from another kind of test — one that measures nucleic acid — before they could enter exam sites.
  The virus also made an appearance on the test itself. In Beijing, students were given the option of writing a poem about delivery men who worked through the outbreak. Another question asked them to write about the themes of distance and connection during the pandemic.
  Lu Yifan, 17, a student from the southern city of Guangzhou, said that at this point, temperature checks and face masks were routine for her. “The pressure is still the gaokao itself,” she said in an interview.
  Then came the unforeseen obstacles.
  Hubei,  the Chinese province where the outbreak began , experienced its worst floods in decades this week, forcing officials to briefly postpone the gaokao for around 500 students. One student in Wuhan, the provincial capital, described the dual threat of the exam and floods to a local reporter as “kind of a test of mental strength.”
  And in the southwestern city of Kunming, a 4.2-magnitude earthquake that struck on Wednesday morning forced about 100 students to flee their exam rooms,  according to Global Times , a state-run tabloid. They returned a few minutes later.
  Hospitals across the South and West  are being flooded with virus patients , forcing them to cancel elective surgeries and discharge patients early as they try to keep beds available.
  Even as regular wards are being converted into intensive care units and long-term care facilities are opened for patients too sick to go home, doctors say they are barely managing.
  “When hospitals and health care assistants talk about surge capacity, they’re often talking about a single event,” said John Sinnott, chairman of internal medicine at the University of South Florida and chief epidemiologist at Tampa General Hospital. “But what we’re having now is the equivalent of a bus accident a day, every day, and it just keeps adding.”
  In South Carolina, National Guard troops are being called in soon to help insert intravenous lines and check blood pressure. At the Medical University of South Carolina in Charleston, patients can wait as long as four hours before being seen in emergency rooms.
  In Florida, more than 40 intensive care units in 21 counties have hit capacity and have no beds available. In Mississippi, five of the state’s largest hospitals have already run out of I.C.U. beds for critical patients.
  Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas on Thursday ordered an increase in hospital bed capacity in nearly 100 counties, extending a ban on elective procedures to new corners of the state.
  Mr. Abbott’s order directed hospitals to “postpone surgeries and procedures that are not immediately, medically necessary.” He had already issued a similar order in hard-hit counties that include the cities of Austin, Dallas, Houston and San Antonio.
  Leicester, a city of 340,000 in the heart of England, was shuttered late last month — again. It was part of Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s plan to play “Whac-a-Mole” with the coronavirus, bringing a mallet down on any areas experiencing an outbreak.
  The imposition of a second lockdown  has induced a sort of whiplash among people who were still recovering from the first. England has gradually been reopening since mid-May; starting Saturday, theaters and music venues will be able to host outdoor events.
  Carving a stay-at-home border around one region, while others hurry back to pubs and jobs, has proved to be a convoluted and divisive step. And it illuminates the difficulties that countries across Europe and Asia will face as they try to battle local flare-ups of Covid-19, the disease caused by the virus. Pouncing on an outbreak depends upon testing and tracking cases down to the level of single office buildings and neighborhoods, a strategy that England has struggled to develop.
  With  sweatshops employing mostly underpaid South Asian immigrant workers  operating during lockdown, Leicester was a prime candidate for a second outbreak. Its garment workers were packed together, not only in the factories but also at home.
  Now, Leicester residents complain, it has to shoulder the reputation of becoming England’s first city to be convulsed a second time by the virus.
  “Being locked down again attaches a stigma to us,” said Dharmesh Lakhani, the owner of Bobby’s, an Indian restaurant on the city’s normally bustling Belgrave Road.
  Separately, Britain on Friday dropped a 14-day quarantine for travelers coming from nearly 60 countries, including most of the European Union. The list of countries does not include the United States.
  Journalists with Al Jazeera are under investigation by the Malaysian police for sedition and defamation after the news network broadcast a documentary showing a military-style crackdown on undocumented migrant workers over coronavirus fears.
  The 25-minute documentary, “Locked Up in Malaysia’s Lockdown,” was broadcast on July 3 and shows the authorities locking down neighborhoods with razor wire and arresting hundreds of migrant workers in the name of preventing infections. The film raises the question of whether transporting arrestees on buses and detaining them in crowded conditions accelerated the spread of the virus.
  Millions of migrants, many of them from Bangladesh, India and Indonesia, work in Malaysia without proper documentation.
  The police questioned six journalists on Friday,  Al Jazeera said . Malaysian officials contend that the report was inaccurate and misleading and deny allegations of racism and discrimination in their treatment of undocumented migrants.
  The Qatari state-owned broadcaster said it stood by its report.
  “Al Jazeera is deeply concerned that its staff are now subject to a police investigation,” the company said. “Charging journalists for doing their jobs is not the action of a democracy that values free speech. Journalism is not a crime.”
  Malaysia’s governing coalition recently came to power  without a new election or vote in Parliament . Since then, the authorities have been cracking down on independent media.
  In one prominent case, prosecutors are pursuing  contempt charges  against the online outlet Malaysiakini and its editor in chief, Steven Gan, over comments that readers posted about the judiciary.
  Officials across the United States reported more than 59,880 coronavirus cases on Thursday, setting a single-day record for the sixth time in 10 days,  according to a New York Times database .
  The surge has been driven largely by states in the South and the West that were among  the first to ease restrictions  established during the virus’s initial wave in the spring.
  In South Carolina, Gov. Henry McMaster announced a new executive order on Friday banning the sale of all alcoholic drinks in restaurants and bars, beginning Saturday after 11 p.m. “Many of the young people in our state as well as around the country seem not to be taking the virus as seriously as they should,” he said.
  In Alabama, the state on Friday reported 36 new deaths, a single-day record.
  In Florida, officials on Friday announced 11,433 new cases, only 25 fewer cases than  the single-day record for new cases the state reported on July 4 . The state also reported 93 new deaths on Friday, a day after setting a single-day record with 120 deaths.
  In Miami-Dade County, Fla.,  data reported on Thursday  showed a 33.5 positive test rate, which is the percent of tests that come back positive. The two-week average ending Thursday was roughly 24 percent. The county has indicated that it aims to be at or below 10 percent.
  At least six states set single-day case records on Thursday: Alabama, Idaho, Missouri, Montana, Oregon and Texas. On Thursday, Tennessee also reported its highest death totals for a single day: 22
  The numbers were especially striking in Texas, which set a record for the fourth consecutive day with more than 10,900 cases. Nearly one in 10 of them were in Hidalgo County, near the border with Mexico.
  “Several months ago, I warned of a potential tsunami if we did not take this more seriously,” Richard F. Cortez, the county judge for Hidalgo,  said in a statement  on Thursday. “The tsunami is here.”
  The number of daily cases has escalated drastically in recent weeks after ebbing through much of the late spring. Even in California, once seen as a model for how to contain the virus, new cases are up 275 percent since May 25.
  Health officials are concerned about the current surge partly because it is larger than the one that hit the United States in the spring. When the Northeast was the center of the U.S. outbreak and testing was more scarce, the country reached a single-day peak of 36,738 new cases on April 24.
  That record stood until June 24, when  the daily total was 36,880 . And Thursday was the sixth day with more than 50,000 cases recorded nationwide.
  President Trump had been  scheduled to hold a rally on Saturday in New Hampshire , one of just two states experiencing declines in cases. Officials there had still been concerned, but on Friday, Mr. Trump postponed the rally,  citing an incoming tropical storm .
  Before the delay, Tom Rath, a Republican who is a former New Hampshire attorney general, had said that “it’s not what we need right now in terms of Covid.”
  Mr. Trump’s campaign had previously said it did not have a sense of the expected turnout, which would have been mostly outside at a Portsmouth airport hangar, and campaign officials had been strongly encouraging attendees to wear face masks.
  A coronavirus outbreak in Tokyo’s nightlife districts pushed Japan’s capital to another daily record on Friday as it recorded 243 new cases, topping Thursday’s high of 224. Gov. Yuriko Koike said at a news conference that about three-quarters of the cases were among people in their 20s and 30s and that the overwhelming majority of them exhibited mild symptoms.
  Japan has been relatively successful  in containing the virus, even after lifting a state of emergency at the end of May. Fewer than 1,000 people have died in a country of 127 million people. Tokyo, a sprawling metropolis of about 14 million, has recorded fewer than 7,300 cases and 325 deaths. As of Thursday, the city recorded just six current serious cases where patients required ventilators. No deaths have been reported in Tokyo for two weeks.
  Ms. Koike said the recent spike in cases may in part be attributed to an increase in testing at nightspots, where workers at so-called host and hostess bars are tested in batches. Ms. Koike said the city conducted more than 3,000 tests on Thursday. In mid-April, the city was conducting an average of fewer than 500 tests a day.
  On Thursday, Ms. Koike said that to address the increase in infections, the city would designate 313.2 billion yen ($2.9 billion) to helping medical facilities and supporting businesses that lose revenues as customers avoid going out. The budget would include a lump-sum payment of 500,000 yen (about $4,700) to any nightlife business that closed to stop the spread of infection.
  Japan’s health ministry reported 357 new cases for the entire country on Thursday, and one death, making a total of 20,719 cases and 982 deaths in Japan.
  In Okinawa, the United States Marines announced on Friday that it would be reinstituting protective measures because of rising concerns about an unidentified number of infections among U.S. troops based in Japan. Troops based in Okinawa will be prohibited from using public transit and restricted to going off-base only for essential services such as grocery shopping, medical appointments and banking.
  The number of Americans dying from the virus has started rising again.
  In today’s edition of The Morning newsletter, David Leonhardt discussed what had been a bright spot for the United States — a declining number of virus deaths — and how the picture has grown darker:
  More than 800 have died in each of the last three days — a three-day total that’s about 60 percent higher than during the same three days last week.
  (The chart above doesn’t yet include yesterday’s number, which would add a third large gray bar on the right side.)
  The spike reverses what had been the one positive virus trend in the U.S.: Deaths had been declining since mid-April, even as the number of confirmed new cases held fairly steady in the late spring and then surged over the past several weeks.
  It began, as so many things do in New York City, with people who would not shut up.
  After the pandemic began in March,  the lines  to get into a Trader Joe’s store on the Upper West Side became excessively long, with people queuing up hours before the store opened.
  And as they waited, they talked incessantly on their phones.
  “Every day these people would wake us up,” said Kyle Luker, whose brownstone window sits just above the Trader Joe’s line. “At first, I was polite and asked them to please be quiet. Then after a few days I was shouting, and my husband was like: ‘Stop it! You can’t do that.’”
  So Mr. Luker and his husband, Ash Fulk, took a different tack: They, with the help of several neighbors,  began jotting down some of the conversations overheard , displaying snippets of them on signs hung outside their window.
  The first sign came about a month into the long lines:
  The process has undergone some modifications. Mr. Luker, a talent manager at Industry Entertainment, does not have the neatest handwriting, so Gabrielle LeMoullec, a neighbor with much more legible print, took over. Her husband, Max Gayle, who works in the events department for a record company, has added accompanying cartoons.
  The names of those overheard are usually changed to protect the mouthy, but the conversations are real.
  And so is the solidarity the neighbors now feel.
  “We all knew each other before, but not like this,” Ms. LeMoullec said. “We were all so secluded at the beginning of the pandemic. We just needed to see other people. We needed to talk.”
  Up to 8,000 people could be released from California prisons by the end of August under new rules announced by Gov. Gavin Newsom’s administration on Friday in response to the coronavirus pandemic.
  The move comes amid growing criticism of Mr. Newsom, a Democrat, for not ordering more people released earlier, even as the coronavirus has ravaged prisons in the state, infecting at least 5,837 prisoners and killing more than 31, according to state data.
  The situation at San Quentin State Prison, outside of San Francisco, is particularly dire: nearly half of the facility’s roughly 3,300 prisoners have tested positive for the virus.
  Among the people who could be released are prisoners deemed “high-risk” if they were to become infected with the coronavirus because of medical conditions and those who have less than a year remaining in their sentence. But many people who fall into those categories will remain in prison, however, because they do not fit other criteria, such as having been deemed to have a “low risk for violence.”
  People will be released from prison on a rolling basis as their situation is reviewed under the new criteria.
  The California prison system said in a statement that the total population has already declined by about 10,000 people in response to the pandemic. About 108,000 people are held in state-run prisons, according to the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation. The San Quentin prison, where the outbreak is the worst, remains at 110 percent of its capacity.
  Donald Specter, the executive director of the Prison Law Office, said Mr. Newsom was moving in the right direction, but had acted too slowly and, in his latest move, did not go far enough to keep people from dying of the coronavirus in prisons.
  “The California prison system has been overcrowded for decades, and they’re still overcrowded today despite the reductions,” said Mr. Specter, who has long fought to reduce the state’s prison population.
  Mr. Specter said he feared that without the release of far more prisoners, the virus would sweep through prisons with vulnerable people, as it had at the San Quentin prison.
  Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas signaled on Friday that he may have to impose a new economic “lockdown” if the state is unable to reverse the record-setting caseloads and hospitalizations that have made Texas a leading U.S. hot spot in the pandemic.
  In an interview with KLBK-TV in Lubbock, Mr. Abbott, a Republican, bluntly predicted that “things will get worse” and said that he may be forced to take steps even more drastic than the statewide face-mask requirement that has angered members of his own party.
  “I made clear that I made this tough decision for one reason: It was our last best effort to slow the spread of Covid-19,” he said. He added that if those efforts fail, “the next step would have to be a lockdown.”
  Texas reported record high numbers of daily cases four times this week, announcing more than 10,900 on Thursday. Nearly a tenth were in Hidalgo County, near the border with Mexico.
  The face-mask order, issued just before the Fourth of July weekend, was one of a series of orders rolling back the state’s gradual economic reopening plan that began on May 1 but was followed by a surge in Covid-19 cases.
  In an effort to blunt the impact on Texas health facilities, the U.S. government has begun deploying federal medical assistance teams to hospitals, some of which have been pushed to capacity levels and beyond.
  “They’re critically needed,” said Mayor Ron Nirenberg of San Antonio, which is receiving assistance from both state and federal teams brought in to bolster hospital staffs. Other teams are being assigned to Austin, Dallas and McAllen as well as to smaller rural cities, Mr. Nirenberg said.
  Much of the recent surge in new U.S. cases has been  driven largely by states in the South and the West that were among the first to ease restrictions. 
  In Florida on Friday, officials announced 11,433 new cases, nearing the single-day record it reported July 4. The state also reported 93 new deaths, a day after setting its single-day record with 120. In Miami-Dade County,  data reported on Thursday  showed that 33.5 percent of virus tests had come back positive;  on Friday, it was reported at 27.8 percent . The county has indicated that it aims to be at or below 10 percent.
  In Alabama on Friday, the state reported 36 new deaths, a single-day record. In South Carolina, Gov. Henry McMaster said Friday that the sale of all alcoholic drinks in restaurants and bars would be banned beginning Saturday night.
  New single-day case records were set Friday in Utah, which reported more 760, and Montana, which reported 127. Other states that were hit hard early are bracing for rebounds.
  As Georgia hit a record for cases, Atlanta officials said Friday that they were preparing to shift back to “Phase 1” guidelines that call for residents to largely stay at home.
  The move comes as Georgia reported more than 4,000 new confirmed cases, its largest single-day increase. The majority of the state’s cases have been concentrated in the counties making up the Atlanta metropolitan area.
  Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms of Atlanta, who said that  she had tested positive  earlier this week, issued a mask mandate in the city on Wednesday and added further limits on large gatherings. It is unclear when the return to Phase 1 would begin.
  The growing intensity of the virus in Georgia was also underscored on Friday after Gov. Brian Kemp announced that the state was once again transforming a convention center in Atlanta into makeshift medical center as hospitals were filling with patients. Cobb and DeKalb counties, in the Atlanta area, set daily records for infections.
  But Ms. Bottom’s decision has revived tensions between her and the governor, as Mr. Kemp’s office released a statement on Friday describing her action as “merely guidance — both nonbinding and legally unenforceable.”
  “As clearly stated in the governor’s executive order,” the statement said, “no local action can be more or less restrictive, and that rule applies statewide.” In a contentiously worded  Twitter thread  Friday, the governor said Ms. Bottoms “should start enforcing state restrictions, which she has failed to do.” The governor has issued an executive order that “strongly encourages” the use of face masks but does not require it.
  The two officials had been at odds earlier over the virus response as she publicly challenged Mr. Kemp’s decision to begin reopening the state, which she argued was premature and stood to have perilous consequences.
  The superintendent of the Atlanta public schools, Dr. Lisa Herring, released a recommendation  on Facebook  Friday that the schools should conduct classes virtually rather than in person when they open next month. Schools nationwide have been grappling with how to reopen and if it can be done safely. And President Trump  threatened this week  to cut off federal funding to districts that do not reopen their classrooms.
  In Los Angeles, the teachers union called on the Los Angeles Unified School District on Friday to keep campuses closed when the semester begins on Aug. 18 and to focus on preparing for distance learning in the fall, the union said in a statement. United Teachers Los Angeles said that the spike in infections, paired with a lack of resources from state and federal governments for schools to increase public health measures, would not allow schools to reopen safely
  A push notification misstated the span of time in which the United States set a seventh single-day record in coronavirus cases. It was 11 days, not 10. 
 