Our live coverage of the coronavirus pandemic has  moved here. Two nurses at St. Joseph's Hospital in Denver, Colorado, have told CNN that they're running out of proper sedation drugs because they've had to intubate so many patients since the coronavirus epidemic began in the US.   A nurse at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, Maryland, tells CNN that their hospital is running out of fentanyl, which they used to sedate intubated Covid-19 patients.  SCL Health Vice President of System Communications Nikki Sloup said that their hospital system, which includes St. Joseph's Hospital, currently has an adequate supply to meet patient needs.  But Sloup warns that if they experience a patient surge, it could see shortages.  CNN reached out to Johns Hopkins Hospital for comment but did receive a response. One nurse said they've never seen so many ventilators being put to use. More than 262 million Americans are currently under stay-at-home orders -- over 80% of the US population -- according to a CNN count. This count includes state, city and county orders. The numbers were tallied using US census data. Among the most heavily impacted states are: Hawaii has reported its first death from the coronavirus, leaving Wyoming as the only US state without a fatality from Covid-19. The Hawaii victim “was an older adult resident of Oahu” with preexisting health problems, according to Dr. Bruce Anderson with the state Department of Health. “This is a difficult time for everyone in Hawaii,” Governor David Ige said in a news conference Tuesday evening. A plane from Russia loaded with personal protective equipment (PPE) and other supplies to assist in the response to Covid-19 is expected to arrive in the United States on Wednesday, a senior administration official tells CNN.  President Trump on Monday told reporters that Russia sent the US “a very, very large planeload of things, medical equipment which was very nice.” Why is Russia sending the equipment?  The Russian embassy in DC tweeted Tuesday that President Vladimir Putin provided the assistance with the consideration that manufacturers would reciprocate and share supplies with Russia if need be.  The National Security Council and State Department did not reply to inquiries as to if President Trump promised that US manufacturers would share supplies with Russia if Russia gets to a point where they need them. Over the next few weeks, Gov. Brian Kemp will deploy the National Guard to help long-term care facilities, assisted living facilities and nursing homes in Georgia with Covid-19 cases.  The National Guard will help implement infection control protocols and enhance sanitation methods in hopes of mitigating exposure to the vulnerable residents, the governor said in a press release. There have been at least 811 new coronavirus deaths reported in the US on Tuesday, according to a count from CNN Health. This is the most reported deaths in the United States in a single day since the coronavirus outbreak began.  There have been a total of 3,815 deaths reported in the US. El Salvador President Nayib Bukele announced the country's first coronavirus death on Twitter Tuesday.  In the short tweet Bukele added, "God will protect us."  El Salvador has reported 32 confirmed cases of coronavirus, according to data from  Johns Hopkins University . President Trump on Tuesday again touted  anti-malaria drugs  as a potential treatment for coronavirus, and extolled their safety, despite the lack of scientific studies on the matter.  Facts First:  Trump is right that the drugs have been available for a while, but he’s wrong to imply that they’ve been proven safe for Covid-19 patients. Public health officials have said testing is still needed, and trials are underway.  Over the weekend, the US Food and Drug Administration  gave emergency authorization  for doctors to use the drugs in hospitals for a limited set of Covid-19 cases. Some physicians have already been using the malaria drugs off-label to treat coronavirus patients. The drugs have been used to safely prevent and treat malaria, and for lupus and other conditions. But there isn’t scientific data proving that they’re safe for coronavirus patients.  There’s no evidence to back up Trump’s assertion that it’s already known that Covid-19 patients won’t die from the treatment. The drug can lead to cardiac side effects, including an irregular heartbeat, which can be especially dangerous for patients with Covid-19, doctors say. Early tests are underway now in New York, the hardest hit area in the US with more than 75,000 cases. This  isn’t the first time  Trump has made this comment. His messaging on the drugs have been far more optimistic than the messaging from the public health officials that have attended the daily White House briefings.