New York City officials pleaded with the federal government to send more test kits for the new coronavirus, saying that the city’s limited capacity to test for the virus had “impeded our ability to beat back this epidemic.”
  The city has 2,700 people under “precautionary quarantine” but has tested less than 100 patients in the past month. Another 1,000 people in suburban Westchester County, just north of the Bronx, are also under self-quarantine, connected to  a large cluster of cases there .
  Mark Levine, a New York City councilman who heads the body’s Health Committee, said that without more extensive testing, “it’s fair to say we have no idea” how many New Yorkers have been infected.
  Vice President Mike Pence, who previously vowed that “any American could be tested,” conceded on Thursday that “we don’t have enough tests today to meet what we anticipate will be the demand going forward.”  The Atlantic  called health departments in all 50 states and could only verify that 1,895 people have been tested for the coronavirus in the United States. About 10 percent of them tested positive.
  The coronavirus outbreak can be tough to follow, especially the statistics. Adam Kucharski, who studies the math behind outbreaks for the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine,  recently talked to The Times  about how people should consider the data.
  One signal Mr. Kucharski looks for is when the first case in an area is a death: “That suggests you had a lot of community transmission already.”
  “Suppose the fatality rate for cases is about 1 percent, which is plausible,” he said. “If you’ve got a death, then that person probably became ill about three weeks ago. That means you probably had about 100 cases three weeks ago, in reality. In that subsequent three weeks, that number could well have doubled, then doubled, then doubled again. So you’re currently looking at 500 cases, maybe a thousand cases.”
  When considering the fatality rate, Mr. Kucharski suggested people pay attention to the variable risk level for different age groups, particularly people in their 70s and 80s.
  “Over all we’re seeing maybe 1 percent of symptomatic cases are fatal across all ages,” he said. “What’s also important is that 1 percent isn’t evenly distributed. In younger groups, we’re talking perhaps 0.1 percent, which means that when you get into the older groups, you’re potentially talking about 5 percent, 10 percent of cases being fatal.”
  Concierge doctors, chartered jets and germ-free hideaways:  The wealthy are sparing no expense  as they prepare for the coronavirus.
  Amid  face-mask hysteria , Gwyneth Paltrow  donned  a sold-out Swedish model that retails for up to $99. Business executives have chartered flights to avoid the germ-tainted first-class lounge, while other rich travelers have opted for remote yachts.
  Worried about the need for potential care, the wealthy have sought pricey memberships for concierge medical services. Silicon Valley survivalists and at least one heiress have stocked fancy home bunkers with food and medical supplies.
  The bigger picture : The availability of luxury goods and services in a health crisis serves to highlight American class inequities, writes Charlie Warzel, an Opinion writer at large. In some ways, ubiquitous delivery services are perfect for a quarantined society — but they are heavily underwritten by a “ vast digital underclass .”
  Let us know how you’re preparing.  Send us a response here , and we may feature it in an upcoming newsletter.
 