While the world scrambles to contain the coronavirus, presidential hopefuls are gearing up for an evening of fierce debate.
  It's Ashley  with the news you’ll want to know. 
  But first, let's set the GIF-JIF record straight:  How do you pronounce "GIF"?  OK, now how do you pronounce "Jif"?  The answer to the decadelong debate is here .
  The Short List newsletter is a snappy USA TODAY news roundup.  Subscribe here ! 
  First thing’s first: What's a pandemic?  It’s the worldwide spread of a new disease, according to the World Health Organization (WHO).
  Now that that’s out of the way:  The deadly coronavirus could cause “severe” disruptions in the U.S. , a federal health official warned Tuesday as global experts struggled to fend off the outbreak and avoid a pandemic.
  But is it too late?  The coronavirus already has caused sickness and death, and it has sustained person-to-person transmission. That's two of the three factors for a pandemic, said Nancy Messonnier, the CDC’s immunization chief. Other experts are also warning that avoiding a pandemic is “very unlikely” at this point.
  President Donald Trump  downplayed coronavirus concerns on Tuesday, saying it was " very well under control in our country ," despite a sharp rise in cases globally that prompted the biggest one-day drop in the Dow Jones Industrial average in two years.
  It’s showtime (again) for the Democrats. Seven Democratic presidential hopefuls take the stage Tuesday night ahead of the South Carolina primary on Saturday. The debate will reunite six contenders from  last week’s heated match-up  in Nevada and will welcome billionaire Tom Steyer back to the stage.  Which candidates could come out on top?  Former Vice President Joe Biden still leads the South Carolina primary race, according to polls, while the  clear frontrunner nationally is Bernie Sanders , who won the popular vote in the first three nominating contests.  The debate is scheduled to begin at 8 p.m. EST . 
  A day after thousands mourned Kobe Bryant and his daughter Gianna at Staples Center in LA, future Hall of Fame quarterback Tom Brady shared an emotional tribute reflecting on the NBA star's legacy. Brady, an NFL free agent for the first time in his career with the New England Patriots, called Bryant a "real-life superhero" and said he's been "deeply affected" by Kobe's passing. In his tribute,  he tried to put into words exactly why . 
  Scientists have discovered the  only known animal that does not need oxygen to survive,  a tiny little parasite that largely preys on salmon. The study, published Tuesday, found that the critter doesn’t require “aerobic respiration” to survive – a revelation that may change how we understand life on Earth and beyond. Another fun fact about the parasite: It’s the first multicellular animal found in the wild to not have the DNA, which contains the genes responsible for respiration. 
  Yes, The Short List is the greatest email you'll get every day. But look, I have to get something important off my chest: It isn't the only USA TODAY newsletter. I know, I KNOW. While I'm generously offering your inbox space to some of my brilliant (and witty) colleagues, do me a favor and  forward The Short List to a friend you think should subscribe ! OK, now for more newsletters: 
  Daily Briefing:  Wake up with my colleague N'dea Yancey-Bragg as your morning news host. The Daily Briefing quickly fills you in on latest news happenings and what to expect for the day.  Subscribe here .
  Chasing Gold : Are you as obsessed with following Team USA as they head to the 2020 Tokyo Olympics? Thought so.  Subscribe here . 
  OnPolitics : Trump vs. ?! The countdown to the presidential election is on, and we're following the ups and downs of the election cycle with attitude.  Subscribe here . 
  Deals We Love : We love deals. And we love when they get delivered to our inbox.  Subscribe here . 
  This is a compilation of stories from across the USA TODAY Network. 
 