[This briefing has ended. For the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak in the New York area, read  Friday’s live coverage .] 
  Health officials reported late Thursday that New York City had added 3,101 new confirmed coronavirus cases since the same time on Wednesday, bringing the total to 23,112. By comparison, more than 4,400 new cases were added from Tuesday to Wednesday. 
  The total number of virus-related deaths climbed to 365 on Thursday, up from 280 the day before. 
  Of the latest death total, the Bronx accounted for 80 deaths (22 percent); Brooklyn, 81 (22 percent); Manhattan, 55 (15 percent); Queens, 123 (34 percent); and Staten Island, 26 (7 percent). An overwhelming majority of the dead had underlying illnesses, officials said. 
  From Wednesday morning to Thursday morning, 100 people died of the coronavirus in New York State, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said at a news briefing on Thursday where the message was notably less hopeful than it had been the previous day.
  Mr. Cuomo said the number of patients hospitalized in New York had shot up 40 percent in a day, the sharpest increase in days.
  One factor in the rising death toll, he said, was that older and weaker patients were staying on ventilators 20 days or longer before succumbing to respiratory failure. 
  “The longer you are on a ventilator, the more probability of a bad outcome,” he said. 
  The governor emphasized that the numbers on any single day did not necessarily capture the damage being caused by the virus. 
  “When you talk to the projection models, what they’ll say is you get a fluctuation,” he said, noting that the data was being reported by hospitals. “They don’t know if it’s a deviation in what the hospitals happen to report that day.” 
  For that reason, he said, “Don’t look at any one day. Don’t look at any period less than three or four days in sequence.”
  Still, the briefing on Thursday was a significant swing from Wednesday’s version, when Mr. Cuomo led with optimistic projections about a slowing growth rate of hospitalization in the state.
  More updates from the Thursday morning briefing:
  Kious Kelly, an assistant nurse manager at Mount Sinai West hospital in Manhattan, texted his sister, Marya Patrice Sherron, on March 18 to say he had tested positive for the coronavirus and was on a ventilator in the intensive care unit.
  He said he could text, but not talk.
  “‘I’m okay,’” he wrote, Ms. Sherron recalled in an interview on Thursday. “‘Don’t tell Mom and Dad. They’ll worry.’” 
  Mr. Kelly, 48,  died late Tuesday , touching off an outpouring of fury and grief among colleagues and family members upset about the lack of protective gear being provided to those, like him, on the front lines of the fight against the virus. 
  “His death could have been prevented,”  Ms. Sherron said on Facebook  on Wednesday. Later, she added: “I’m angry. He was healthy.”
  Mr. Kelly lived a few blocks away from the hospital and was described by colleagues as a dedicated, good-humored colleague.
  “He used to carry around a thick notepad holder that hides a box full of chocolates and candies so he can have it handy to give out to miserable/grumbly nurses and doctors who are more likely than not ‘hangry,’”  Joanne Loo, a nurse at Mount Sinai West, posted on Facebook  on Wednesday.
  Nursing was not his first vocation. A native of Michigan, Mr. Kelly moved to New York over 20 years ago to pursue a career as a dancer, his sister said. He then went to nursing school and worked as a nurse at Mount Sinai West, before being promoted to the post of assistant manager in the telemetry department.
  Workers at Mount Sinai West, the hospital on 10th Avenue formerly known as Roosevelt Hospital, said that the hospital did not have sufficient personal protective equipment, or P.P.E. Over the weekend,  photos on social media showed nurses wearing garbage bags  because of a shortage of gowns. 
  “We do not have enough P.P.E., we do not have the correct P.P.E., and we do not have the appropriate staffing to handle this pandemic,” Bevon Bloise, a registered nurse at the hospital  wrote on Facebook . 
  A hospital spokeswoman, Lucia Lee, disputed the assertion that the hospital had not furnished protective equipment to its staff. 
  “This crisis is straining the resources of all New York area hospitals,” she wrote, “and while we do — and have had — enough protective equipment for our staff, we will all need more in the weeks ahead.”
  More governors on Thursday targeted travelers from the New York area, the center of the coronavirus outbreak in the United States, in an effort to limit the spread in their own states.
  Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas ordered anyone flying into the state from New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and  the city of New Orleans  to self-isolate for 14 days. Gov. Gina Raimondo of Rhode Island said she was requiring that anyone traveling from New York do the same. 
  And in Connecticut, where many wealthy New Yorkers own second homes, Gov. Ned Lamont urged all travelers from New York City to self-quarantine for 14 days upon entering the state. 
  The new orders came after Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida and Gov. Larry Hogan of Maryland imposed similar restrictions and after White House officials said that anyone who had recently been in New York,  which had more than 37,000 cases and nearly 400 deaths as of Thursday , should self-quarantine for two weeks.    
  Mayor Bill de Blasio questioned the wisdom of such directives at a news briefing on Wednesday. 
  “I think there’s a little bit of a lack of recognition right now of just how much this disease has already spread around the country,” he said. 
  Mr. Abbott’s executive order applies only to those traveling into Texas by air. He said it would be enforced by the state’s Department of Public Safety, and that violations would be considered a criminal offense punishable by a fine, jail time or both. State troopers will conduct visits to travelers’ isolation locations to verify compliance.
  Ms. Raimondo said that to enforce her order, National Guard troops would be stationed at bus and train stations, and that the State Police would help check cars with New York plates.
  Late Thursday, the New York Police Department reported that Dennis C. Dickson, a custodian at Police Headquarters and a 14-year employee, had died earlier in the day, the department’s first coronavirus death. 
  Mr. Dickson, 63, died at Kings County Hospital in Brooklyn, the department said in a news release. 
  The release described Mr. Dickson as a “revered member of the custodial staff,” noting in particular a 17-day stint he worked during and after Hurricane Sandy assisting with emergency cleanup operations at headquarters.
  During the virus outbreak, the release said, “Mr. Dickson was again on the front line cleaning and disinfecting 1 Police Plaza so that our personnel could be here safely.”
  Gov. Philip D. Murphy of New Jersey said on Thursday that 19 more people had died of the coronavirus, bringing the total number of deaths in the state to 81. There were 2,492 new recorded cases of virus, bringing the state total to 6,876, Mr. Murphy said.    
  Forty-three of 375 long-term care facilities in the state now have at least one patient who has tested positive for coronavirus, the state health commissioner said. Three of the 19 people whose deaths were reported on Thursday had recently been in nursing homes.
  On the economic front, 16 times as many New Jersey residents filed for unemployment insurance last week — 155,000 people — as did the week before, Mr. Murphy said. 
  The governor also said that New Jersey schools would remain closed until at least April 20. 
  Like cities around the country, New York is moving to release vulnerable, nonviolent inmates from jail to stem the spread of the virus among the incarcerated.
  By late Wednesday, 200 inmates had been freed, bringing New York City’s jail population to 4,906, Mayor Bill de Blasio said at a news conference on Thursday. The last time it was below 5,000, he said, was 1949. Another 175 inmates were expected to be released by Thursday night. 
  Separately, Mr. de Blasio identified Elmhurst Hospital Center in Queens as “the epicenter within the epicenter” of New York’s coronavirus crisis after  13 people died there in a 24-hour span . 
  A top city health official said four people had died at the hospital in the past day, and Mr. de Blasio said that 40 additional ventilators and 56 additional staff members were on their way there. 
  City health officials also said on Thursday that they were studying how to extend the use of protective gear for hospital workers, including potential methods for re-sanitizing surgical masks, as supplies dwindle and needs rise. 
  Allia Phillips was excited to pick up an iPad from her school in Harlem last week. She did not want to miss any classes and hoped to land on the fourth-grade honor roll again.
  On Monday, when New York City’s public schools began remote learning, Allia fired up the iPad at her family’s room in a homeless shelter on the Upper West Side.
  And saw nothing.
  “I went downstairs to find out that they don’t have any internet,” Allia’s mother said. “You’re screwing up my daughter’s education.”
  The public school system’s switch from regular school to remote learning is leaving poor and vulnerable students behind — especially  the estimated 114,000 living in shelters and unstable housing  — because most shelters in the city do not have Wi-Fi available for residents and the Department of Education has not yet provided devices with built-in internet.
  The department is scrambling to fix the problem, as children fall further behind, and it has told shelter operators that deliveries of laptops would not begin until next week.
  Almost overnight, an empty warehouse in Brooklyn’s Navy Yard was transformed into a makeshift factory churning out tens of thousands of face shields for medical workers on the front lines of the fight against the coronavirus.
  The effort, a partnership between three firms that typically make fabrics or print marketing signage, stems from New York City’s call for businesses to help make protective gear, like masks and gowns, that is urgently needed.
  On Thursday, more than 100 workers sat around folding tables, turning pieces of plexiglass and foam bands into disposable face shields that cover the whole face and resemble welder’s masks. The three companies developed a prototype on Saturday and received city approval the next day.
  They expect to produce 15,000 to 18,000 shields a day for city hospitals.
  “This is a wartime effort,” Mr. de Blasio said after touring the cavernous warehouse on Thursday. “They created a factory from scratch.”
 