With the travel fallout from coronavirus  worsening daily , talk in Washington seems to have shifted from a  potential domestic travel ban  to emergency federal aid for battered airlines. 
  "We don't want airlines going out of business,'' President Donald Trump said at a White House briefing Tuesday.
  Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin said he has spoken with airline CEOs this week about what they need. The industry is seeking $50 billion in aid, according to the  Associated Press .
  "This is worse than 9/11 for the airline industry,'' Mnuchin said, echoing comments from almost every airline executive this month.
  The airline industry, Mnuchin said, has "almost ground to a halt.''
  'It has a 9/11-like feel': Southwest CEO says bookings down precipitously from coronavirus concerns 
  The only help Mnuchin mentioned for the industry was loan guarantees, but they are also seeking federal grants among other measures.
  It was only a few weeks ago that carriers were touting their unprecedented financial strength to withstand the crisis, with many boasting about the billions in cash they had on hand. But travel bookings have plunged rapidly, trip cancellations have surged and the drop-off is accelerating, they say.
  Now they are bleeding cash and raising money, slashing flights and warning employees about potential pay cuts or layoffs. United alone said it expects sales to be  $1.5 billion lower  in March than a year ago.
  Southwest Airlines CEO Gary Kelly said in a video to employees Monday: "We’re gathering up all the cash we can. ...There is simply no way to know how long this crisis will last.''
  President Trump said again Tuesday that  domestic travel restrictions  haven't been ruled out but focused his airline industry comments on the forthcoming aid package and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's new guidelines, out Monday, about  avoiding unnecessary travel  for the next two weeks.
  Asked what he would say to travelers planning spring vacations in the Caribbean or Mexico, Trump said: "I would just say, 'Enjoy your home.'''
  Airlines for America, a trade group representing U.S. airlines, said Monday that imminent aid is critical to the industry's survival because the travel fallout from coronavirus concerns continues to worsen, and there appears to be no end in sight.
  "This crisis hit a previously robust, healthy industry at lightning speed, and we remain concerned that the impacts of this crisis will continue to worsen,'' the group said in a statement. "U.S. carriers are in need of immediate assistance as the current economic environment is simply not sustainable.''
 