New York City is on track to begin reopening June 8, consumer spending in the U.S. has dropped dramatically, and that cold you had in December or early January was not coronavirus, a new study says.
  Meanwhile, President Trump says he’s terminating US relationship with the World Health Organization.
  There are more than 5.9 million confirmed cases around the world, with 1.7 million in the United States, according to the  Johns Hopkins University data dashboard . The virus has killed more than 102,000 people in the U.S., and over 364,000 people worldwide.
  Our live blog is being updated throughout the day. Refresh for the latest news, and get updates in your inbox with  The Daily Briefing . Scroll down for more details. 
  Here are a few developments to know today: 
  Your daily dose of good news:  This  dad and daughter duo in Spain  have been dressing in costumes for their daily walks to bring some joy back to their neighborhood.
  A week after images of Memorial Day weekend revelers jammed into a Lake of the Ozarks pool party at Backwater Jack's Bar & Grill in Osage Beach made international headlines, the Camden County Health Department announced that a Boone County resident  tested positive for the novel coronavirus after visiting the Lake of the Ozarks area over the holiday weekend .
  The Boone County subject arrived at the lake on Saturday, May 23, and "developed illness" on Sunday, according to a news release obtained by LakeNewsOnline.com, which like the News-Leader is part of the USA TODAY Network. The infected person "was likely incubating illness and possibly infectious at the time of the visit," the health department said.
  The health department released a timeline of possible COVID-19 exposures "due to the need to inform mass numbers of unknown people."
  --  Gregory Holman, Springfield (Missouri) News-Leader 
  President Donald Trump said he would formally  end the U.S. relationship with the World Health Organization , blasting the multilateral institution as a tool of China. He also said Hong Kong is no longer entitled to special treatment by the United States, because it is no longer autonomous from mainland China. Trump made the announcements during a Rose Garden event in which he leveled a long list of complaints against China – from engaging in unfair trade practices to hiding the scope and severity of the deadly coronavirus.   
  – David Jackson, Deirdre Shesgreen, Kim Hjelmgaard 
  The spark that started the U.S. coronavirus epidemic arrived during a three-week  window from mid-January to early February , before the nation halted travel from China, according to the  most comprehensive federal study  to date of when the virus began spreading.
  That means anyone in the U.S. who thought they had the virus in December or early January probably had the flu, public health researchers said.
  Some people have claimed Americans were getting sick from the coronavirus as early as November and that infections were spreading in the U.S. before any case was identified, said Dr. Robert Redfield, the head of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. “(This) puts data into the discussion. Prior to this we had discussion without a lot of data,” he said.
  In the study released Friday, CDC researchers collaborated with health officials in six states as well as genetics researchers and disease modelers in the Seattle area.
  – Associated Press 
  New York City  is on track to begin reopening June 8  as the state gradually loosens restrictions put in place during the coronavirus crisis, Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Friday.
  Cuomo said the city was meeting goals set for hospital rates and testing, will “stockpile” personal protective equipment and will focus on infection rates in hot spots by ZIP code.
  “We believe all of these things can be done next week,” the Democratic governor said at his daily briefing. The state saw 67 new deaths, a number he called the “lowest ever.”
  – Associated Press 
  New Jersey schools  are upending plans for graduation  following word from Gov. Phil Murphy this week that the state will allow in-person, socially-distanced commencement ceremonies starting July 6. 
  The state Education Department has issued guidelines, including a requirement that events be held outdoors, that families stay 6 feet apart and that districts "strongly encourage" attendees to wear face coverings. The department didn't set a limit for the number of people allowed to attend, saying only that districts should comply with whatever state restrictions are in place at the time of the ceremony. 
  For many, it was the news they had hoped to hear, but it also threw a wrench into plans for alternative and virtual graduations that had been weeks in the making due to stay-at-home orders brought on by the coronavirus pandemic.
  – Hannan Adely 
  U.S. consumer spending plunged by a record-shattering 13.6% in April.
  Last month’s spending decline was far worse than the revised 6.9% drop in March, which itself had set a record for the steepest one-month fall in records dating to 1959. Friday’s Commerce Department figures reinforced evidence that the economy is gripped by the worst downturn in decades, with consumers unable or too anxious to spend much.
  Even with employers cutting millions of jobs during the month, personal incomes soared 10.5% in April, reflecting billions of dollars in support through government payments in the form of unemployment benefits and stimulus checks.
  Those with cancer die at a higher rate from COVID-19 than the general population, though for the same basic reasons – because of their older age, male gender, smoking history and multiple health problems, according to a study published Thursday in  The Lancet.  
  While COVID-19 has killed about 6% of Americans diagnosed with it, the study found 13% of cancer patients died within a month of catching the coronavirus that causes the disease.
  But some of the factors researchers worried might increase patients’ risk of death – such as recent cancer treatment – turned out not to play a major role, the study found.  Read more .
  – Karen Weintraub 
  Costco plans to start bringing back its legendary free samples  next month with some changes.
  The retailer suspended its popular samples in its wholesale clubs in early March over safety concerns with the spread of the coronavirus. Consumers lamented the change on social media as they missed the smorgasbord of free snacks, which was one of the first programs to be cut as the threat of COVID-19 grew.
  But during Costco's quarterly earnings call Thursday, officials said they were targeting a mid-June return of the freebies. “We're going to start doing some things in mid-June on a slow rollout basis in sampling,” Costco chief financial officer Richard Galanti said. “I can't tell you anymore, but needless to say it’s not going to be where you go and just pick up an open sample with your fingers."
  – Kelly Tyko 
  Got summer travel on your mind? As you're thinking about booking a hotel, know this. Hotels have standard room-cleaning practices, which have been upgraded since the pandemic. But there is no universally accepted way to clean a hotel guest room, says Sheryl Kline, a professor at the University of Delaware who has researched hotel hygiene.
  "Typically, cleanliness is based on visual inspection. This provides an aesthetic evaluation but not an assessment of the possibility of microbial contamination," she adds.
  That hasn't stopped the hotel industry from trying to set standards during the pandemic. Consulting experts, a visual inspection, and taking quick action if you're in a place that doesn't meet your expectation can ensure that you stay in a clean room.  Read more .
  – Christopher Elliott 
  Efforts to crack down on fraudulent 3M mask sales  ended with a first criminal case this week  when a used car salesman was charged with trying to bilk New York City out of $45 million. 
  Authorities say Ron Romano, 58, was a middleman who promised to provide 7 million masks to the city for $45 million – four times 3M’s list price. That case turned criminal Tuesday when the U.S. Attorney’s Office announced his arrest on charges of conspiracy to commit wire fraud and violate the Defense Production Act.
  Across the country, 3M has accused others of seizing the moment: A financial consultant, one suit alleged, offered Florida up to 10 million masks at a 460% markup; a Utah-based health network, another said, tried to middleman a deal in California to sell masks at $4.95, a 400% markup; and from a base in a Las Vegas hotel room, a man tried to land a $14-billion deal with Indiana.  Read more here.  
  – Nick Penzenstadler and Josh Salman 
  The Republican National Committee  sent North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper a letter Thursday evening  specifying "safety protocols" they want him to approve for their party's convention this August amid the COVID-19 pandemic. 
  The letter, obtained by USA TODAY, comes after Cooper, a Democrat, said earlier Thursday that RNC organizers had yet to provide written plans for how they envisioned safely holding the convention in Charlotte.
  RNC Chairman Ronna McDaniel wrote, “As we have previously discussed, it is our shared goal to host the Republican Nation Convention in Charlotte and to showcase the Queen City, and all of the Carolinas, to the entire world in August.”
  The RNC told Cooper's office they want a response by June 3. President Donald Trump said earlier this week that he wanted to know “within a week” whether the convention could be held in North Carolina. 
  – Savannah Behrmann 
  Thousands of restaurants, nail salons and other small businesses unable to take full advantage of the financial lifeline provided through the federal Paycheck Protection Program would get some needed help  under a bipartisan bill the House overwhelmingly passed Thursday .
  The bill, now headed to the Senate, loosens some key rules regarding loan repayment and spending restrictions of the PPP. The program, created in March as part of the CARES Act, has already provided more than 4.4 million small businesses with an infusion of cash to keep their workers on the payroll during the coronavirus pandemic. 
  The $660 billion program, enacted as part of Congress' response to the coronavirus crisis, provides businesses employing up to 500 workers forgivable loans of as much as $10 million. But many businesses said the program's structure is too rigid to accommodate different types of small businesses, especially restaurants whose rent-heavy expenses do not fit well in a program that prioritizes rehiring of employees.
  – Ledyard King 
  Sales were down 40% at Nordstrom after temporarily closing its stores due to the coronavirus pandemic, the Seattle-based retailer announced Thursday. COVID-19 has led other department stores to file for bankruptcy including J.C. Penney and Neiman Marcus. Nordstrom officials had a different take. 
  “We’re entering the second quarter in a position of strength, adding to our confidence that we have sufficient liquidity to successfully execute our strategy in 2020 and over the longer term," Nordstrom CEO Erik Nordstrom said in a news release.
  Still, Nordstrom is not immune from permanent store closings. Officials previously announced  they would permanently close 16 of the company's 116 full-line stores  because of the impact of COVID-19. In its presentation Thursday, it listed the locations, which include closing three Jeffrey specialty boutiques.
  – Kelly Tyko 
  Contributing: Associated Press 
 