The administration of President Donald Trump is considering plans Tuesday to wind down its coronavirus task force as early as this month and has already begun to talk about a transition plan with FEMA.
  As the national death toll surpassed 70,000, a preliminary internal administration coronavirus report suggesting the daily U.S. death toll could reach 3,000 by month's end does not take into account mitigation efforts that should ease the crisis, Trump said.
  Trump was bound for Phoenix  to visit a Honeywell aerospace plant  that now produces face masks, a day after Gov. Doug Ducey announced he was accelerating a plan to reopen the state's economy. 
  In the U.S. there are more than 1.2 million confirmed cases, according to the  John Hopkins University data dashboard . Worldwide, the virus has killed over 256,000 people and infected more than 3.6 million.
  Our live blog is being updated throughout the day. Refresh for the latest news, and get updates in your inbox with  The Daily Briefing . Scroll down for more details. 
  Here are some of the most important developments to know Tuesday:  
  What the internet is talking about this morning:  Man who wore KKK hood at California grocery store  may be charged with hate crime , authorities say.
  Good news for your Tuesday:  If you're really missing Taco Bell on this Cinco de Mayo, you can bring an entire taco bar home. Yep,  Taco Bell is offering its At Home Taco Bar  ($25), which has all the ingredients for tacos packed individually for you to build as you wish.
  Trump's administration  is considering plans to wind down its coronavirus task force as early as this month , a major shift in the White House response to the health crisis.
  A senior administration official speaking on the condition of anonymity confirmed that Vice President Mike Pence told reporters in a briefing Tuesday that members of the taskforce were "having a conversation" about when and how to wind down the group.
  "I think we’re having conversations about that and about what the proper time is for the task force to complete its work and for the ongoing efforts to take place on an agency-by-agency level," Pence told reporters, according to a transcript of his remarks reviewed by USA TODAY. "And we’ve already begun to talk about a transition plan with FEMA." 
  Trump announced the creation of the task force on Jan. 29, saying its goal was to "monitor, contain and mitigate the spread of the virus." The group, which Pence has led, has met virtually every day – bringing together not only White House officials but also top public health experts within the Trump administration.
  – David Jackson and John Fritze 
  Trump touched down in Phoenix Tuesday , ending his confinement at the White House amid the coronavirus pandemic and kicking off what he hopes is the reopening of state economies. 
  Trump’s trip will highlight Honeywell International, a North Carolina-based aerospace defense contractor that is producing millions of N95 respirator masks for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
  During a roundtable discussion with Native American leaders, Trump announced Arizona tribes will soon receive "the single largest investment in Indian country in our history" to fight COVID-19."
  The Navajo Nation, which includes land in northern Arizona, New Mexico and Utah,  will soon receive more than $600 million  and the Gila River Indian Community will receive $40 million in initial funds to protect citizens from "the scourge, this plague, from what we're all fighting in this country," Trump said.
  Hours before Trump landed, the Treasury Department announced it was releasing $4.8 billion of aid to tribes, some of which includes the Navajo tribe, whose community is among the hardest-hit in the nation by the virus.
  – Yvonne Wingett Sanchez, Ronald J. Hansen, Stephanie Innes and Chelsea Curtis Arizona Republic 
  A sheriff in Florida  is encouraging people to come to his county  to watch the scheduled May 27 historic launch of a SpaceX rocket with two astronauts aboard.
  It would be the first launch of astronauts from U.S. soil since the end of the space shuttle program in 2011. The 230-foot-tall rocket will take astronauts Bob Behnken and Doug Hurley to the International Space Station in a Crew Dragon capsule.
  But Brevard County Sheriff Wayne Ivey's invitation runs contrary to a NASA recommendation for people to watch the launch on television. Administrator Jim Bridenstine reiterated that on Friday during a pre-launch news conference when he asked people to watch from home. 
  "If NASA is telling people to not come here and watch the launch, that's on them," Ivey said. "I'm telling people what I believe as an American. And so NASA has got their guidelines, and I got mine."
  – Dave Berman and Emre Kelly 
  A vaccine expert who said he was ousted after raising concerns about a drug Trump touted as a potential treatment for coronavirus  filed a whistleblower complaint Tuesday alleging  longstanding political influence at the Department of Health and Human Services.
  Rick Bright, who until recently served as director of the HHS Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, also said he raised alarms about the coronavirus – and the need to ramp up production of face masks and other personal protective equipment – with White House officials as far back as January. 
  Bright says in the report that he resisted widespread use of hydroxychloroquine, which Trump had repeatedly touted, because the claims of its benefit lacked “scientific merit." In his report, Bright said he pushed back against the drug "even though the administration promoted it as a panacea and demanded that New York and New Jersey be 'flooded' with these drugs."
  – David Jackson and John Fritze 
  Multiple reports and social media accounts suggest some  Wendy's restaurants have been running out of beef , which means customers can't order burgers. In a note released Tuesday, Stephens analyst James Rutherford said almost 20% of the restaurants were out of beef due to its "famous focus on fresh beef." In a statement obtained by USA TODAY, Wendy's said it continues to supply all its restaurants with beef, but acknowledged that some menu items may be "temporarily limited" at some restaurants.
  "It is widely known that beef suppliers across North America are currently facing production challenges," the statement said. "We’re working diligently to minimize the impact to our customers and restaurants, and continue to work with our supplier partners to monitor this closely."
  – Brett Molina 
  The novel coronavirus infected as many as 171 people in Florida as long as  two months before officials announced it had come to the state , a Palm Beach Post analysis of state records shows. Patients reported symptoms of the deadly virus as early as Jan. 1, when the disease was thought to be limited to China, Department of Health records reveal. Florida did not announce its first two presumed coronavirus cases until March 1. But at the time of the first two cases, 171 people across 40 counties who would later test positive for COVID-19 were suffering from the disease, state records show.
  – Chris Persaud 
  President Donald Trump on Tuesday dismissed a data analysis within his administration that projects the number of coronavirus deaths could reach 3,000 daily by June 1. Trump told reporters on Tuesday that the analysis, based on modeling by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, assumes no mitigation efforts would be in place to control the spread of the disease.
  “But we’re doing a lot of mitigation,” he said before departing the White House for a trip to Phoenix. The analysis projects the prospect of a steady rise in the number of coronavirus cases and deaths, according to the internal document. The projections forecast about 200,000 new cases each day by the end of the month, up from about 25,000 cases now.
  The White House, which has been encouraging states to begin reopening their economies, immediately challenged the report and said it had not been presented to the coronavirus task force or gone through interagency vetting.
  – Michael Collins 
  Norwegian Cruise Line warned that its upcoming financial statements will carry a statement detailing "substantial doubt"  about its ability to continue as a "going concern"  in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic that has essentially shut down the cruise industry. This comes after the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention extended a "no sail order" last month that it imposed in March to help quell the spread of the coronavirus. Cruise ship operators registered in foreign countries, such as Bermuda-incorporated Norwegian, were shut out of U.S. stimulus packages exceeding $2 trillion.
  Norwegian is scheduled to release its monthly traffic report on Thursday and its first quarter results on May 28.
  – David Oliver 
  To have a  vaccine by next summer  will require both luck and cutting corners never cut before. To speed up the process, some researchers are planning to give volunteers experimental vaccines and then infect them with the virus that causes COVID-19. Current rules are meant to protect volunteers from harm, but with the global death count from the coronavirus over 250,000, scientists are asking: Is it acceptable to deliberately infect healthy people with a disease for which there is no cure? Increasing scientists say the answer is yes.
  "The mortality and morbidity and the social consequences that are a result of this infection are enormous,” said Dr. Kathryn Edwards, scientific director of the Vanderbilt University Vaccine Research Program. “We have to figure out how to stop it."
  – Elizabeth Weise 
  Former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, saying that “there are going to be deaths no matter what,” called for leaders to  allow people to get back to work  before we “destroy American way of life." Speaking on The Daily DC Podcast hosted by CNN’s Dana Bash on Monday, Christie said, “What we are doing now I just don’t think can be sustained as a country.” Christie, who sought the GOP presidential nomination in 2016, said claims that we must choose between money and lives is a “false choice.” 
  “We have to start letting people get back to work. I can see in my own state the economic devastation is equally sad,” he said, adding that the medical community might keep us "locked in our houses for another year" until there is a vaccine.
  – John Connolly, NorthJersey.com 
  Arkansas will permit barbershops, beauty salons, massage therapists and tattoo artists, among others, to open again Wednesday. With May 15 as the target date, Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam on Monday said he is extending an executive order closing most nonessential businesses that was set to expire May 8. A separate stay-at-home order set to end June 10 will remain in place.
  California was preparing for Stage 2 of its reopening plan, which will allow some retail businesses to begin curbside pickup on Friday. In Arizona, barbershops and salons can resume hair, nail, waxing and other services by appointment Friday if they limit occupancy.  Find out the latest on your state. 
  State and local health officials nationwide have faced increasing scrutiny over the  collection and release of infection data  for long-term care facilities, whose residents are among the most susceptible to COVID-19. States have adopted their own standards with mixed results, according to interviews and examination of states' records by the USA TODAY Network. The head of two industry groups representing most of the nation’s 15,000 licensed long-term care centers has publicly supported releasing facility-level infection data and urged members to provide it to residents, families and staff.
  “We believe this information can help identify long-term care providers who are most in need of testing and PPE resources,” said Mark Parkinson, CEO of the American Health Care Association and National Center for Assisted Living.
  – Jo Ciavaglia, Stacey Barchenger and Matthew Leonard 
  Coronavirus deaths in the United Kingdom are nearing the 30,000 mark, the highest in Europe, according to  John Hopkins University's COVID-19 tracker . The three countries with the largest death tolls in Europe – Italy, Spain and the U.K – have been recording data around infections and deaths in different ways.
  Figures released by the U.K's Office for National Statistics on Tuesday morning showed that 29,648 deaths with COVID-19 mentioned in death certificates had taken place in England and Wales as of April 24. Including deaths for Scotland and Northern Ireland, the toll on this measure now exceeds 30,000, according to the statistical agency. John Hopkins University's COVID-19 tracker lists 28,809 deaths in the U.K. At least 29,079 people have died from the coronavirus in Italy. 
  – Kim Hjelmgaard 
  A Russian paramedic who complained about being forced to work after testing positive for COVID-19 was in critical condition after falling from a hospital window in western Russia, according to multiple media reports. In the last two weeks, two other health care workers who challenged Russian medical authorities fell from windows to their deaths.
  In the latest incident, Alexander Shulepov worked on an ambulance in Voronezh, 300 miles south of Moscow, when he and a friend posted a video on social media April 22 complaining about a lack of personal protective gear, the Russian website  vestivrn.ru  said. Shulepov fell from the window May 2. The friend, Alexander Kosyakin,  told CNN  that Shulepov "felt fine, he was getting ready to get discharged from the hospital ... and all of a sudden this happened, it's not clear why."
  Three people were facing murder charges Tuesday in the death of security guard Calvin Munerlyn, a father of nine who authorities say was gunned down after turning away a customer  without a mask from a Family Dollar in Michigan . 
  Genesee County Prosecutor David Leyton filed the charges Monday against Sharmel Teague, 45, Larry Edward Teague Jr., 44, and Ramonyea Bishop, 23.
  Leyton said Sharmel Teague and her daughter left the store after a verbal altercation with Munerlyn, but that her husband and son arrived a short time later. Teague fatally shot Munerlyn after accusing him of "disrespecting"  his wife, Leyton said.
  "Decisions like staying home when we can, wearing a mask when going to the store and staying a safe distance from those around us, these should not be political arguments," Leyton said. "They don't necessitate acts of defiance."
  – Miriam Marini, Detroit Free Press 
  Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin is encouraging Americans to focus on domestic travel this year as the  international travel outlook for the rest of 2020 remains uncertain . In response to a question Monday from Maria Bartiromo on Fox Business Network about whether international travel will be opened up this year, he responded, “Too hard to tell at this point."
  The Treasury secretary clarified that there may be room for limited international travel: “Obviously, for businesspeople that do need to travel, there will be travel on a limited basis."
  – Julia Thompson and Dawn Gilbertson 
  The nation's largest supermarket chain announced it will offer free COVID-19 testing to all its front-line associates "based on symptoms and  medical need ." Kroger, the parent company of Ralphs and Fred Meyer, said it test employees by providing self-administered kits and testing through public drive-thru sites.
  "The resilience of the Kroger family is unparalleled, and we're doing all we can to keep our team healthy and safe," Colleen Lindholz, president of Kroger Health, said in a statement. "The widespread availability of diagnostic testing will now allow our associates to feel more empowered and knowledgeable about their health, creating safer stores and facilities."
  The announcement comes after  employees have died  from the coronavirus, and workers in Southern California protested the company's response to the outbreak.
  U.S. stocks roseTuesday, aided by slowly recovering oil prices and another solid showing from big technology companies. Shares also rose in Hong Kong, Singapore. Markets in Shanghai and Tokyo were closed for a holiday.
  Wall Street shook off a weak start and ended with modest gains Monday but remains down double digits from all-time highs reached in February before the pandemic slaughtered economies around the world.
  Contributing: The Associated Press 
 