A member of Vice President Mike Pence's staff has tested positive for coronavirus, news, The White House announced Friday — news that came as a jobs report showed the unemployment rate has soared to 14.7%, wiping out nearly all the nation’s job gains since the Great Recession. 
  There were more than 76,000 deaths and 1.28 million confirmed coronavirus cases in the U.S. on Friday, according to the  John Hopkins University data dashboard . Worldwide, the virus has killed nearly 273,000 people and infected more than 3.9 million.
  Our live blog is being updated throughout the day. Refresh for the latest news, and get updates in your inbox with  The Daily Briefing . Scroll down for more details. 
  Here are some of the most important developments to know today: 
  For a positive outlook on the economy:   Here are 5 reasons you shouldn't freak out about the 20.5 million jobs lost last month.  
  What we're talking about:  The COVID-19 antibody treatment could be found in llamas, after all. Years ago, researchers found that a 4-year-old Belgian llama named Winter produced an antibody against other coronaviruses.  Now, scientists are hoping llamas could help in this fight. 
  At least  11 U.S. Secret Service employees were reported to be infected with the coronavirus  and about 60 other staffers were in self-quarantine, a person familiar with the matter said Friday.
  The person who is not authorized to comment publicly declined to breakdown the numbers of civilian versus agent infections. The assignment locations of the sick employees also were not identified.
  The service, which provides personal protection for the president, vice president and their families, along with visiting heads of state, has 7,600 employees, including more than 3,000 agents who work in close proximity to those they protect.
  — Kevin Johnson and Michael Collins 
  Roy Horn, half of the Las Vegas stage duo Siegfried & Roy, died of  complications due to the coronavirus Friday. He was 75 .
  “Today, the world has lost one of the greats of magic, but I have lost my best friend,” Siegfried Fischbacher said in a statement. “From the moment we met, I knew Roy and I, together, would change the world. There could be no Siegfried without Roy, and no Roy without Siegfried.
  “Roy was a fighter his whole life including during these final days. I give my heartfelt appreciation to the team of doctors, nurses and staff at Mountain View Hospital who worked heroically against this insidious virus that ultimately took Roy’s life.”
  Roy Horn tested positive for the contagious respiratory illness in late April.
  — Brett McGinness 
  A New York study suggests  blood thinners may help reduce deaths among critically ill coronavirus patients on ventilators .
  In an observational study published in the peer-reviewed Journal of the American College of Cardiology, Mount Sinai doctors gave blood thinners to 28% of 2,773 hospitalized patients with COVID-19, the disease caused by the virus. They discovered the sickest patients benefited the most from the blood thinners.
  “This is an opening door on a treatment that could be of great benefit ... But we are very cautious in interpreting it because it’s an observational study,” said Dr. Valentín Fuster, senior investigator and corresponding author of the Mount Sinai study.
  — Adrianna Rodriguez 
  The City of Cincinnati will  close parts of 25 streets so restaurants can expand outdoor seating , a move that will help restaurants without patio space keep tables farther apart for social distancing  – and open as early as possible.  
  Restaurants and bars have been closed by state order since March 21 in order to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus. It's put people out of work and shuttered restaurants who opted not to morph into carryouts.
  Tampa announced a similar plan May 5. And cities in San Mateo County in California temporarily restricted traffic beginning late last month in areas so people could safely get together. 
  In a similar move, Seattle said  20 miles of streets  closed amid the state's stay-at-home order will be permanently closed to vehicles. The areas will remain for residents to exercise outside, and the construction of bike infrastructure will be accelerated in 2020, Mayor Jenny A. Durkan announced.
  — Sharon Coolidge 
  The Food and Drug Administration on Friday  approved a test developed by Rutgers University  that allows people to collect their own saliva and send to a lab for results, the university announced. 
  IT's the first at-home saliva test that has been approved and allows for broader screening than through the standard method using nose and throat swabs. 
  An aide to Vice President  Mike Pence has tested positive for coronavirus , the White House confirmed. Pence was traveling to Iowa to meet faith leaders to discuss reopening religious services to the public, but his plane was delayed and some staffers disembarked.
  The news comes just one day after the  White House announced Thursday that a military valet to President Donald Trump had tested positive for the virus . Trump told reporters that his aides will now be tested daily instead of weekly after the valet tested positive for the disease.
  — Michael Collins 
  U.S. companies sold a record $83.1 million in N95 respirator masks in March to other countries, a 10-year high that came at the same time the coronavirus was racing across the nation leaving many first-responders and doctors without the protective equipment,  according to a USA TODAY analysis  of U.S. Census Bureau trade data.
  March’s total export figure surpassed the previous high of $74.3 million set in February, when many of the masks went to China. And it far exceeded the average monthly shipment value of $53.3 million over the past decade, USA TODAY’s analysis found.
  The exports came even as top-level White House officials, including Vice President Mike Pence, were being warned that such shipments were hurting the country’s own supply, according to an 89-page whistleblower complaint released Tuesday from Dr. Rick Bright, the oousted U.S. Health and Human Services division director.
  — Dian Zhang, Katie Wedell and Erin Mansfield 
  More coronavirus news and information from USA TODAY 
  The coronavirus crisis is putting unprecedented pressure on parents forced to spend more time at home while kids attend class from the living room. But the fallout isn’t equally split, according to a survey conducted by YouGov in partnership with USA TODAY and LinkedIn.
  Women are taking on a greater share of parenting responsibilities  during the home isolation and men tend to think they’re contributing more to the kids than they actually are, according to the recent survey of professionals age 18 to 74.
  In most cases, the imbalance is an extension of what’s known as "invisible labor," experts say, and the situation is being compounded during the pandemic. 
  –  Paul Davidson 
  The U.S. economy  lost 20.5 million jobs in April and the unemployment rate soared to 14.7%  – both record highs – laying bare the starkest picture yet of the crippling gut punch delivered by the coronavirus pandemic.
  In just a month, the historically dismal performance abruptly wiped out all of the nation’s job gains since the Great Recession of 2007-09.
  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast 22 million job losses and a 16% unemployment rate.
  –  Paul Davidson 
  Retailers that were already struggling before the coronavirus pandemic started  are beginning to crumble .
  Fashion chain J. Crew Group and luxury department store retailer Neiman Marcus Group filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the first week of May as they faced mounting losses with their stores temporarily closed. While both companies are planning to remain in business, bankruptcy poses the possibility of permanent store closings or outright liquidation as COVID-19 throttles sales.
  J.C. Penney, which was facing declining sales and several years of losses heading into this crisis, is also considering filing for bankruptcy and company officials are hoping to avoid liquidation.
  – Nathan Bomey 
  The nation's disjointed approach to re-opening has revealed two Americas: One is populated by those eager to reclaim freedom of movement and restart the economy, and another by people whose COVID-19 concerns keep them sheltering in place. And often they’re living side by side in a country rocked by 1.2 million coronavirus cases and 75,000 deaths. 
  A  USA TODAY analysis of mobile phone use data shows  that people in every state have become more active in recent weeks following a significant reduction in mobility that reached its lowest point in mid-April.
  But many Americans remain cautious. The data, which comes from location data company SafeGraph and is based on the recorded movements of 16 million anonymous phones, reveals the rebound is happening far more slowly than many states' abrupt move to shelter in place, with U.S. mobility less than halfway back from its lowest level when compared to February.
  – Marco della Cava, Dan Keemahill and Nick Penzenstadler 
  Friday will bring changes across several states — including Alaska, where bars, gyms, libraries and theaters will open again, and Iowa, where dental offices, campgrounds and drive-in theaters will reopen for business.
  Meanwhile, Arizona will allow barbershops and salons to reopen with limited capacity and Pennsylvania will lift stay-at-home restrictions for nearly two dozen counties in the northern part of the state.
  Coming Saturday, Nevada will allow restaurants, retail stores, barbershops and hair salons to open again.  Find the latest news from your state . 
  A new survey shows the majority of Americans are  more worried about social distancing measures being loosened too quickly  than they are about the country not reopening quickly enough.
  Nearly 3 out of 4 Americans – 71% – say they are more concerned by the government lifting social distancing restrictions too quickly, according to a survey from the Democracy Fund + UCLA Nationscape Project. That's more than double the 29% who say they are worried restrictions are not being lifted quickly enough.
  – Rebecca Morin 
  A woman faces disorderly conduct charges after an altercation that began when a  Walmart employee in Alabama asked her to wear a face mask  in the store and ended with a police officer performing a "take-down" maneuver on her, officials said.
  Video of the confrontation at a Birmingham Walmart circulated widely on social media. The video shows the officer picking the woman up and throwing her to the ground. It appears he was attempting to handcuff her.
  The Southern California-based buffet chain restaurant Souplantation, known nationwide as Sweet Tomatoes, announced Thursday it will permanently close all 97 restaurants due to financial challenges caused by the coronavirus pandemic.
  “The FDA had previously put out recommendations that included discontinuing self-serve stations, like self-serve beverages in fast food, but they specifically talked about salad bars and buffets,” John Haywood, CEO of Garden Fresh Restaurants, the parent company of Souplantation and Sweet Tomatoes, told  The San Diego Union-Tribune .
  The closure will affect 4,400 employees, the Union-Tribune reported. Souplantation was founded in 1978 in San Diego and began expanding nationally in 1990 under the name of Sweet Tomatoes.
  All African Americans, Latinos and tribal community members in Wisconsin will have  access to free COVID-19 testing under a plan  announced Thursday by Gov. Tony Evers. His plan is an effort to combat the staggering racial and ethnic disparities Wisconsin and many other states are facing when it comes to dealing with the coronavirus pandemic.
  African Americans and Latinos account for half of all coronavirus cases in Wisconsin. Latinos make up less than 7% of the state's population, but account for 29% of the COVID-19 cases. African Americans make up only about 6% of Wisconsin's total population but account for 21% of the confirmed cases statewide. 
  "These disparities existed before this pandemic. But what we can do in this present circumstance is we have to, have to, have to test more people," Evers said in an interview with the Journal Sentinel. "In order for us to do the best job possible serving the disadvantaged groups in this state who are disproportionately impacted by this virus, we have to test more."  
  – Mary Spicuzza and Alison Dirr, Milwaukee Journal Sentinel 
  On the day he issued guidelines for parts of California to start reopening, Gov. Gavin Newsom also identified a nail salon as the origin of the coronavirus outbreak in the state, one of the first ones in the nation to get impacted.
  Newsom provided details of the requirements for counties to relax social distancing measures beginning Friday, when clothing stores, florists, sporting goods stores and bookstores will be among the retailers allowed to operate again, albeit through curbside pick-up service.
  Asked why businesses that offer personal-care services like nail salons can’t open yet, Newsom said, “This whole thing started in the state of California, the first community spread, in a nail salon. I just wanted to remind you, remind everybody, of that. I'm very worried about that.’’
  He did not elaborate about the time and place community spread began in the state.
  The Transportation Security Administration on Thursday announced it will  require employees to wear facial protection  at security checkpoints, the latest move to heighten safety standards to protect against COVID-19.
  The press release announcing the decision also encourages passengers to wear facial protection at screening areas as a way to combat the spread of coronavirus. As a health measure, many airlines, including American, United, Delta, Southwest, Alaska, Frontier, JetBlue and Spirit, have announced plans to make face masks mandatory for passengers.
  The employee facial-protection requirement will be implemented in the coming days, according to a TSA press release, which describes the action as "an additional measure to help minimize spread of COVID-19 and help raise the overall health and safety level inside the airport environment." Agency personnel will be provided with masks.
  – Bill Keveney 
  Contributing: The Associated Press 
 