California will ponder starting the next school year in July, the U.S. reached yet another troubling milestone Tuesday  as confirmed coronavirus cases topped 1 million , and more grim news could potentially be ahead.
  Some states have outlined their plans to gradually reopen , prompting a model to project an increased number of deaths from the first wave of the virus.
  California Gov. Gavin Newsom said his state is still weeks away from modifying its stay-at-home orders, but he does envision public school students making up for lost time by returning to the classrooms early in the next academic year.  
  The million-plus figure in U.S. cases of COVID-19, which represents nearly one-third of the global total, does not accurately portray the actual amount considering that mild and moderate cases are lagging, warned Dr. Tom Ingelsby, director of the Center for Health Security of the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health.
  Also Tuesday, the  Navy's Blue Angels and Air Force's Thunderbirds  flew over the New York area to honor essential workers on the front lines of the coronavirus outbreak.
  The coronavirus had killed nearly 217,000 people globally as of Tuesday night, according to  Johns Hopkins University data , with more than 3.1 million confirmed cases worldwide. The U.S. has reported more than 1 million confirmed cases with more than 58,300 deaths, surpassing the 58,220 Americans killed in the Vietnam War from 1955 to 1975.
  Our live blog is being updated throughout the day. Refresh for the latest news, and get updates in your inbox with  The Daily Briefing .   More headlines: 
  July, that most sacred of months for students on summer vacation, may become part of the school calendar in California because of the coronavirus.
  Gov. Gavin Newsom said Tuesday's he's concerned about a "learning loss'' for state students because the academic year was interrupted in March as the virus spread. Instruction continued remotely in an uneven fashion, but in-person teaching has been declared over for the school year.
  To compensate, Newsom suggested the next academic year -- which for California public schools typically begins around the third week of August -- start sometime in July or early August, provided it's safe. 
  “We might want to consider getting that school year moved up a little bit,'' Newsom said. "That learning loss is very real.”
  California is still under a stay-at-home order and Newsom said "meaningful modifications” to it could be made within weeks.
  Dozens of states have decided to reopen businesses and have established a number of conditions for restarting,  but public health experts question their ability to monitor and handle the inevitable increase in cases that will follow .
  If the surge is strong enough, some may have to reimpose the social distancing restrictions that devastated their economies, making for a herky-jerky approach to recovery.
  "“I think they’re playing Russian roulette. They’re hoping obviously that reopening the states is not going to lead to increased cases," said Dr. John Swartzberg, clinical professor emeritus at the University of California-Berkeley. "They have no way of monitoring the answer to that question until it explodes."
  – Jorge L. Ortiz 
  A leading model  projecting the total death toll from the coronavirus  increased the number of Americans predicted to die during the first wave of the virus.
  The new projection says 74,073 people in the United States will die from COVID-19, within an estimated range of 56,563 to 130,666 deaths. The previous model, created by researchers at the University of Washington, earlier had the number at 67,641 deaths.
  "At least part of this increase is due to many states experiencing flatter and thus longer epidemic peaks," the  researchers wrote . States have also seen deaths not fall as quickly following a peak.
  Dr. Chris Murray of the University of Washington  told CNN  that signs people are becoming active again also contribute to the increase. "It's a safer strategy to get the number of infections in the community down to a really low level, and then testing and contact tracing and isolation can work," Murray told the network.
  Faced with worries of a meat shortage  caused by the coronavirus, President Donald Trump on Tuesday ordered beef, pork and poultry processing plants to remain open despite safety concerns.
  Citing his authority under the Defense Production Act,  Trump declared in an executive order  that "it is important that processors of beef, pork, and poultry ('meat and poultry') in the food supply chain continue operating and fulfilling orders to ensure a continued supply of protein for Americans."
  Critics said the forced openings – some plants have closed because so many employees contracted the coronavirus – threaten the safety of workers who remain vulnerable to the disease.
  In a full-page newspaper ad over the weekend, Tyson Foods board Chairman John Tyson said "the food supply chain is breaking," and "there will be limited supply of our products available in grocery stores until we are able to reopen our facilities that are currently closed."
  – David Jackson 
  As American doctors watched their Italian counterparts deny ventilators to senior citizens with the coronavirus earlier this year, they clamored for more devices and prepared to live out their greatest fear: denying a dying person the care they need because of a shortage.
  But weeks after COVID-19 cases peaked in some of the hardest-hit U.S. states, doctors and administrators who spoke with USA TODAY say they are  not aware of doctors turning away anyone for a ventilator . At the worst, some patients shared machines. 
  Doctors say the lockdowns and other measures to slow the spread of the virus helped hold down caseloads just enough to make it to the other side of the peak.  
  "It worked just in time in New Jersey," said Shereef Elnahal, the CEO of University Hospital in Newark. "Had we (peaked) a week later or two weeks later, we would have seen an overwhelming overload of our health care system."
  – Erin Mansfield 
  A  new poll from the Washington Post and University of Maryland  shows that roughly two-thirds of Americans support restrictions on businesses and public gatherings in their states. Roughly 1 in 5 say the restrictions do not go far enough.
  Similarly, about two-thirds of Americans said they support President Donald Trump's decision to temporarily halt immigration amid the virus outbreak. Republicans overwhelming support the measure and even about half of Democrats say they do too.
  The poll also found that about 60% of the country is very or somewhat worried about getting the virus and becoming seriously ill.
  Ohio will hold an election like no other  in the state's 217-year history, an almost all-mail primary, as the nation looks on to see how to vote during the public health crisis.
  The pandemic halted Ohio's March 17 primary a month after early voting had started and thousands of votes were cast. The primary was extended to April 28, with virtually all voters required to mail in their votes. 
  "We're going to see a lot of states try this out in April, May and June," said Barry Burden, director of the Elections Research Center at the University of Wisconsin. "They're going to make a lot of mistakes. But they'll learn a lot by November."
  – Scott Wartman 
  Regions of New York state can begin the reopening process after their hospital system is at least 30% below capacity and their rate of infection is below 1.1, Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Tuesday.
  That means only 70% of the hospital system can be filled at a time and an infected person in the region is only infecting, on average, roughly one other person. Cuomo described the metrics as two "built-in circuit breakers" that would halt a region's reopening if they fall behind. Extensive contact tracing – 30 tracers for every 100,000 people – will also be necessary for regions to reopen.
  "We want to reopen but we want to do it without infecting more people or overwhelming the hospital system," Cuomo said a news conference.
  Some reopening will have to happen on a statewide basis, such as parks and beaches, to prevent people from unopened region from flocking to the open attractions, Cuomo said.
  k.
  A top Japanese medical expert worries that without a coronavirus vaccine widely available,  the Olympics, already delayed to 2021 , may be "difficult" to hold.
  Japan Medical Association President Yoshitake Yokokura said Tuesday infections of the virus need to be under control globally, not just in Japan, to safely host the Olympics. "In my view, it would be difficult to hold the Olympics unless effective vaccines are developed,” Yokokura said.
  Japan and the International Olympic Committee agreed to postpone the Tokyo Games until July 23, 2021.
  An emergency room doctor in Manhattan who treated coronavirus patients  committed suicide Sunday, police said .
  Dr. Lorna Breen, 49, the medical director of the emergency department at New York-Presbyterian Allen Hospital, was staying with family in Charlottesville, Virginia.
  Abby Siegel, a friend of 10 years, told USA TODAY in a message that Breen "brought devotion and compassion to all areas of her life."
  – Grace Hauck 
  European nations are looking at schools and children first as they begin to reopen their countries after coronavirus lockdowns.
  French President Emmanuel Macron said he wants schools to start reopening May 11, though some teachers, parents and local officials worried that may be too soon.
  Greece's Health Ministry’s virus spokesman Sotiris Tsiodras said his country's schools would reopen "gradually, with conditions" but did not set a recommended date.
  In New Zealand, top health officials said the country  has achieved its goal of eliminating the coronavirus  as new cases dropped to single digits.
  Meanwhile, in South America, Brazil has emerged as a potential new hot spot for the virus, health officials worry. Overwhelmed hospitals and poor testing infrastructure are among "all the conditions here for the pandemic to become much more serious," said Paulo Brandão, a virologist at the University of Sao Paulo.
  Contributing: The Associated Press 
 