The  U.S. economy suffered its worst decline in more than a decade  and economists fear the worst may be yet to come, while Los Angeles emerged Wednesday as the nation's first major city to offer free coronavirus testing for all residents.
  Meanwhile, a global study brought hope after a trial of the antiviral drug remdesivir showed promising results and  nationwide decontamination sites are starting to recycle millions of much-needed N95 masks daily .
  As  states continue to charge toward gradual phases of reopening , with Florida entering its first phase May 1, experts warn of risks: "They're playing Russian roulette."
  There was a warning from New York City doctors, too, who published a letter on Wednesday detailing an alarming trend: The  coronavirus is triggering a surge in strokes in younger patients .
  With more than 60,900 deaths in the U.S., more Americans have died from the virus than were killed during the Vietnam War, from 1955 to 1975, according to  Johns Hopkins University data . Worldwide, there are over 3.1 million confirmed cases  –  including 1.03 million in the U.S. – and more than 227,600 deaths.
  Our live blog is being updated throughout the day. Refresh for the latest news, and get updates in your inbox with  The Daily Briefing .  More headlines: 
  Hours after Los Angeles County reported its greatest surge in new coronavirus cases, Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti announced free testing would be available for all residents in the city and county.
  "While priority will still be given to those with symptoms, individuals without symptoms can also be tested," Garcetti said on Twitter, directing people to sign up at http://Coronavirus.LACity.org/Testing. He touted Los Angeles as the "first major city in America" to open free COVID-19 testing to all residents.
  There were 1,541 new confirmed cases on Wednesday in Los Angeles County, nearly 1,000 more than on Tuesday, the county's public health department announced. Los Angeles' death toll of 1,056 as of Wednesday night is the highest of any city in the western United States.
  – Steve Kiggins 
  California Gov. Gavin Newsom will order all beaches and state parks closed Friday after tens of thousands of people flocked to the seashore last weekend during a heat wave despite his stay-at-home order, according to a memo sent Wednesday evening to police chiefs around the state.
  Eric Nuñez, president of the California Police Chiefs Association, said it was sent to give chiefs time to plan ahead of Newsom’s expected announcement Thursday.
  A message to the governor’s office seeking comment wasn’t immediately returned on Wednesday night.
  Newsom this week targeted beachgoers in Orange and Ventura counties, calling them an example of “what not to do” if the state wants to continue its progress fighting the coronavirus.
  The first possible scientifically proven treatment for COVID-19  emerged Wednesday with early data from a global study finding patients given the experimental drug remdesivir recovered faster and may be less likely to die .
  Early results released from the global study conducted by the U.S. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases found patients who received remdesivir had a 31% faster recovery time than those who received a placebo.
  While not a "knock out," NIAID director Anthony Fauci said at an Oval Office meeting Wednesday, the study results were "a very important proof of concept."
  Earlier Wednesday, pharmaceutical company Gilead Sciences  said remdesivir produced "similar improvement" in patients over a 10-day treatment plan compared with a five-day treatment plan .
  – Elizabeth Weise and Nathan Bomey 
  Jared Kushner: Government's response to coronavirus 'great success story' 
  White House senior adviser Jared Kushner called the federal government's response to the coronavirus outbreak  "a great success story”  on Wednesday as cases topped 1 million and the death toll passed 60,000 in the United States. 
  Kushner, the president's son-in-law who has been serving on the White House coronavirus task force, doesn't often make public appearances. During an interview on Fox News on Wednesday, Kushner said, "I think that we've achieved all the different milestones that are needed. So the government, federal government, rose to the challenge and this is a great success story. I think that's really what needs to be told." He also claimed that by June "a lot of the country should be back to normal," and that by July, "the country's really rocking again."
  Researchers at Harvard University recently concluded the U.S. would need to conduct 500,000 to 700,000 coronavirus tests a day to begin reopening safely. Last week the country averaged 210,000 daily tests, according to the COVID Tracking Project.
  –   Savannah Behrmann 
  Gov. Ron DeSantis outlined the first phase of his plan to reopen segments of Florida’s economy, saying Wednesday the first obstacle was to overcome “fear of the unknown, fear of the doom-and-gloom hysteria.”
  Schools will remain in distance learning, elective surgeries can resume, restaurants can offer outdoor seating with six feet of social distance and indoor seating must be at 25% of normal capacity. Indoor retail businesses can operate at 25% indoor capacity. Visits to senior living facilities will remain prohibited and bars, gyms and personal service providers such as hair salons will remain closed.
  The first phase will go into effect May 4 , DeSantis said, but will exclude Miami-Dade, Broward and West Palm Beach counties. He urged everyone to continue observing social distancing, avoiding gatherings of 10 or more people and wearing face masks in situations when physical distance is difficult to achieve.
  –   Lorenzo Reyes 
  The  U.S. economy, largely shut down by the coronavirus pandemic, turned in its worst performance in more than a decade  early this year, but the dismal showing reflects just a sliver of the damage to come.
  The nation’s gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services produced in the U.S., contracted at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 4.8% in the January-March period as both consumer and business spending fell sharply, the Commerce Department said Wednesday. It marked the first drop in output since early 2014 and the steepest since late 2008 during the depths of the Great Recession.
  The first-quarter contraction likely reflects only part of the actual slide because initial estimates typically miss some data and such gaps are accentuated during big economic shifts, Goldman Sachs says. Also, the firm says, many businesses were closed and couldn’t be surveyed.
  – Paul Davidson 
  New York City doctors say the  coronavirus is triggering a surge in strokes in younger patients , causing alarm among medical experts. Over a two-week period, Mount Sinai doctors reported five patients under the age of 50 who suffered large vessel strokes, according to a letter they published in the  New England Journal of Medicine .
  All five patients tested positive for COVID-19 but had very mild to no symptoms. Dr. J Mocco, director of the Cerebrovascular Center at Mount Sinai and one of the letter’s authors, said these stroke patients in New York were 15 years younger than the normal stroke population, had no risk factors and were statistically more likely to be male.
  “That creates a big alarm,” Mocco said. “Our spider sense goes up to say that there’s something not right here.”
  – Adrianna Rodriguez 
  New data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  suggest that the number of deaths in the United States from the new coronavirus may be far higher than what states are reporting. Looking at the CDC data, the New York Times found that deaths surged 50% higher than normal in seven states from March 8 through April 11. However, the official number of COVID-19 deaths did not account for all those deaths in the surge.
  A USA TODAY investigation found that in New York, deaths attributed to pneumonia are up 651% for March 22 through April 11. Those counts are up 670% in New Jersey and 172% in Michigan. The three states reported 7,430 pneumonia deaths above the typical 1,419. 
  A USA TODAY analysis of weekly mortality data since the fall of 2013 reinforces the possibility that COVID-19 deaths are being missed in official tallies because they were instead recorded as pneumonia. In a typical year, about 11,300 people have died from pneumonia in the last week of March and first two weeks of April. This year, more than 22,200 Americans have died from the condition from March 22 to April 11.
  However, public health officials have warned that the number of deaths and total coronavirus cases may be undercounted as testing capacity still lags in many states and some people sickened with the new virus die outside of a hospital.
  In the latest sign New York State is gradually easing restrictions, Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Wednesday he will sign an executive order to allow elective surgeries to resume only in counties where a coronavirus surge is unlikely.
  Elective surgeries were canceled to increase hospital capacity during the peak of the outbreak. No New York City counties were eligible to resume elective surgeries nor were Erie County – where Buffalo is located – or Albany County.
  And after increased media attention regarding the state of subway cars in New York City, Cuomo also said he is going to ask the Metropolitan Transportation Authority for “a full plan of how we disinfect every train, every night, period.” Cuomo cited concerns that the virus could spread without efficient sanitation amid reports of unhygienic conditions and many homeless people sheltering in the cars.
  – Lorenzo Reyes 
  Essential workers in Michigan would be eligible for  free college under a new plan being proposed by Gov. Gretchen Whitmer .
  The plan, modeled on the GI Bill, would pay for college for those front-line workers who don't have a college degree, Whitmer said in announcing it Wednesday. Those eligible would be workers "like the ones staffing our hospitals and nursing homes, stocking the shelves at grocery stores, providing child care to critical infrastructure workers, manufacturing PPE, protecting public safety, picking up trash or delivering supplies," the state said in the announcement.
  The plan is being called Futures for Frontliners. It is being billed as the first-such program in the nation. Details about the program, how people would apply for it and how much it would cost were not immediately released. Whitmer said the state would use federal grant money to pay the costs.
  –   David Jesse, Detroit Free Press 
  The acting Navy secretary on Wednesday ordered a deeper  investigation into the events surrounding the coronavirus-stricken USS Theodore Roosevelt  and the firing of its skipper for seeking aid. Acting Navy Secretary James McPherson said he ordered the more comprehensive investigation after receiving the findings of a preliminary inquiry conducted by Adm. Mike Gilday, the chief of naval operations. Gilday's recommendation was to reinstate Capt. Brett Crozier, the ship's commander.
  Outrage over Crozier's ouster for advocating on behalf of the 4,800-member crew of the USS Theodore Roosevelt prompted the resignation of acting Navy secretary Thomas Modly and sparked an investigation. The coronavirus outbreak aboard the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier has  consumed the Pentagon and caught the attention of President Donald Trump  who has both criticized and sympathized with Crozier.
  – Tom Vanden Brook 
  Gov. Larry Hogan  said there have now been 262 confirmed COVID-19 cases associated with Maryland poultry workers , a day after President Donald Trump ordered all meat packing plants to remain open.
  The Delmarva Peninsula is home to several poultry processing plants, including Perdue Farms, Tyson Foods and Mountaire Farms. Hogan called the outbreaks "a serious public health concern" and "a potential threat to Maryland's leading agricultural industry and to our nation's essential food supply chain." 
  State epidemiologists have told the affected areas to focus on testing support, contact tracing, occupational health communications and outreach. The executive director of the Maryland Emergency Management Agency is spearheading the state's "intensive effort."
  – Rose Velazquez 
  House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi named seven Democratic lawmakers Wednesday to a panel overseeing trillions of dollars in stimulus funds  intended to offset the impacts of the coronavirus pandemic.
  The rollout of the stimulus program and the accompanying federal response have already faced problems and some criticism. Publicly traded companies have been able to  access loans  meant for small businesses. Stimulus checks have been sent to  dead people . And the distribution of medical supplies has been uneven as states have had to  outbid each other  for life-saving equipment.
  Republicans have not yet announced their nominees for the panel, which allows spots for five Republicans. A spokesperson for House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy told USA TODAY the committee was "another partisan pursuit" and was redundant because of other existing oversight bodies.  
  – Nicholas Wu and Ledyard King 
  Dozens of states have decided to reopen businesses and have established a number of conditions for restarting, but  public health experts question their ability  to monitor and handle the inevitable increase in cases that will follow. If the surge is strong enough, some may have to reimpose the social distancing restrictions that devastated their economies, making for a herky-jerky approach to recovery.
  “I think they’re playing Russian roulette. They’re hoping obviously that reopening the states is not going to lead to increased cases," said Dr. John Swartzberg, clinical professor emeritus at the University of California-Berkeley. "They have no way of monitoring the answer to that question until it explodes."
  – Jorge L. Ortiz 
  Contributing: The Associated Press 
 