In a roller-coaster day of coronavirus-related events, President Donald Trump  declared a national emergency Friday  to provide disaster funding, speed up the U.S. response to the crisis and offer "maximum flexibility" to attack the problem.
  Trump, speaking from the White House Rose Garden, said the move would free up $50 billion in additional disaster funding and would also allow the department of Health and Human Services to waive regulations and laws to deliver coronavirus testing quicker.
  The president said the emergency measures will allow "maximum flexibility to respond to the virus and to care for patients." He said some of the steps could open up such local innovations as drive-through testing.
  "No resource will be spared," Trump said.
  Word of the announcement comes amid efforts by the House to agree with the administration  on a massive federal response  to the crisis following a week of huge swings on Wall Street.
  Get daily coronavirus updates in your inbox:   Sign up for the Daily Briefing .
  The administration stepped up its efforts in the immediate aftermath of the World Health Organization declaring the coronavirus outbreak a pandemic and the global death toll surpassing 5,000. Confirmed cases in the U.S. exceeded 1,700, and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Friday there have been 41 deaths.
  The fallout from the coronavirus crisis keeps coming, with schools shutting down, iconic sports events postponed and political actors weighing in.
  Here's the latest on the outbreak of COVID-19:  
  Major cruise lines including Carnival, Royal Caribbean, Norwegian, and MSC will suspend sailing operations to and from U.S. ports for 30 days due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Cruise Lines International Association announced Friday.
  Viking and Disney cruises announced similar measures Thursday, before the major cruise association.
  The suspension will take effect at midnight Friday. CLIA said it will focused on the "safe and smooth return" of those currently at sea on ships.
  President Trump tweeted Friday that the cruise suspension came "at my request."
  "It is a great and important industry – it will be kept that way!" Trump wrote. 
  Also Friday, Canada's transport minister, Marc Garneau, said all Canadian ports would be closed to cruise ships carrying more than 500 passengers from April 2 to July 1.
  At least 30 cruise ships at sea list port destinations in the USA this week, according to a USA TODAY analysis. That means upward of 100,000 people – 70% of them passengers – could look to come ashore at a range of U.S. ports. 
  — Curtis Tate and Bryan Alexander 
  Nursing homes across the country are restricting visitors in an attempt to protect residents from the virus, sacrificing person-to-person visits even from family in a bid to slow the disease's spread.
  The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services said Friday it will tell nursing homes nationwide to come up with temporary restrictions that ban visitors and nonessential personnel with a few exceptions, such as end-of-life situations, said Seema Verma, administrator of the federal agency that oversees the nation's major health care programs.
  The American Healthcare Association and the National Center for Assisted Living are also advising nursing homes to restrict nonessential visits to prevent their residents from being exposed to COVID-19, the illness caused by the new coronavirus.
  - Vincent Gabrielle 
  Library systems across the country are shutting their doors in an effort to slow the spread of coronavirus.
  Los Angeles, San Francisco and Seattle all announced they were closing their libraries Friday at the end of day. Los Angeles' 73 libraries and San Francisco’s 29 will be closed through March 31. The closure in Seattle of all 27 libraries will last at least through April 13. 
  New York City also closed all of its 92 libraries Friday evening and will reopen on March 31.
  Toledo, Ohio libraries will close beginning Sunday, March 15, with no reopening date yet set. Ten branches which are also polling places will be opened for Democratic Party Primary voting on March 17.
  The Columbus, Ohio Metropolitan Library is closing all 23 locations Friday at least through April 6.
  In Maryland, the library system of the city of Baltimore as well as five county library systems, Baltimore, Howard, Anne Arundel, Carroll and Hartford, were being closed over the weekend. Reopening dates varied between March 27 and March 31.
  In Cincinnati, all 41 libraries that are part of the city and county library system closed March 13. The system plans to reassess the closure each week.
  The Office of Commonwealth Libraries in Pennsylvania instructed all libraries to close on March 14 and remain closed through March 29.
  President Donald Trump said during his Friday afternoon news conference that he would “most likely” be tested for the virus.
  “Fairly soon,” he said when asked when the test would be performed. “We are working out a schedule.”
  Trump met with Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro at Mar-a-Lago in Florida last Saturday. While Bolsonaro has tested negative for the virus, on Thursday his top communications aide tested positive for COVID-19.
  Trump said his decision to agree to a test had nothing to do with the Bolsonaro interaction. “Not for that reason but because I will do it anyway,” the president said.
  Others who came in contact with Brazilian officials during the visit have taken other actions. U.S. Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-South Carolina, self-quarantined after attending the dinner at Mar-a-Lago.
  Asked about the self-quarantine efforts, Trump said he had been told by his “many” White House physicians not to be tested for the virus.
  —    Antonio Fins 
  Princess Cruises, a division of Carnival, says it won't sail for 60 days. Two of its ships, the Diamond Princess and Grand Princess, have experienced outbreaks of the coronavirus in recent weeks.
  The Grand Princess confirmed Friday that approximately 2,450 people have disembarked and the 14 international guests who remain on the ship are awaiting transportation to their home countries.
  The ship has been disembarking this week in Oakland, California. Once the final 14 passengers leave, the entire process will be complete. At least two passengers and 19 crew members on the Grand Princess tested positive for the coronavirus.
  More than 700 people aboard the Diamond Princess tested positive for the coronavirus, and six of them died. The ship was first quarantined off the coast of Japan on Feb. 3. The last people got off the ship on March 1.
  — Morgan Hines and David Oliver 
  Some Starbucks stores in the U.S. and Canada may become drive-thru only while others could limit the number of people allowed inside in response to the pandemic, the company said.
  The company might also close a store if it feels it is in the best interest of its customers, Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson said in a letter to customers.
  Any closures will be temporary and decisions will be made on a store-by-store basis.
  The Seattle coffee chain has approximately 15,000 U.S. stores and 1,600 Canadian stores. Most are owned by the company but some – including locations in retail stores and airports – are run by licensees.
  Starbucks has already increased the pace of sanitizing stores and put into place a temporary ban on use of personal cups or in-store mugs and glassware.
  —  Associated Press 
  President Trump said Friday he was waiving all federal student loan interest due to the  outbreak. The waiver will last “until further notice,” he said.
  Few details about how that might affect borrowers were available. Would it mean a smaller monthly payment, or simply that a borrower might be able to repay the principal balance back more quickly?
  The Education Department did not immediately provide detail about how the president’s plan would work. Experts said that waiving interest wasn’t that helpful.
  It’s really the payment that hurts borrowers, not necessarily the interest, said Antoinette Flores, the director for postsecondary education at the Center for American Progress, a left-leaning think tank. She wondered whether borrowers would be able to pause their payments without accruing interest on their loans.
  Beth Akers, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a right-leaning think tank, agreed that waiving interest in this context would be “somewhat inconsequential.” But, she said, it might set a precedent for eliminating interest in the future.
  — Chrissie Thompson 
  Stocks recovered Friday following a brutal week of selling after Trump declared a national emergency to free up about $50 billion in federal aid to fight the virus. The Dow Jones industrial average finished the day up 1,985 points, or 9.4%, a day after plunging 2,352 points, for its worst loss since its nearly 23% drop on Oct. 19, 1987.
  – David Brinkerhoff 
  House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Friday that the House would pass an economic stimulus package aimed at boosting testing for the coronavirus and to help people displaced economically by the crisis.
  "The three most important parts of this bill are testing, testing, testing," she said in a televised statement. She said it would provide for coronavirus testing for everyone who needs a test — including the uninsured.
  It also will secure paid leave, with two weeks of paid sick leave and family and medical leave, for those affected by the virus, she said. 
  The speaker called the packages "evidence-based" in its effort to tackle the virus crisis.  Although some Republicans have dismissed earlier versions of the bill as a Democratic "wish-list," Pelosi negotiated the final deal with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin.
  Read more updates from Washington here.  
  After declaring a national emergency to combat the coronavirus outbreak,  President Donald Trump shook hands  with a series of corporate executives after they each made remarks at the White House podium – despite repeated advice from his own public health experts against such contact.
  Only one company official, Bruce Greenstein of the home healthcare provider LHC Group, moved his hand away from Trump’s outstretched hand and offered an elbow instead.
  "I like that. That's good," Trump said a bit awkwardly after elbow-bumping Greenstein.
  – Deirdre Shesgreen 
  Governor Phil Murpy  said in a Facebook post  Friday that he has requested a nationwide extension of the Real ID deadline.
  "Today, I wrote the federal government requesting a nationwide extension of the Real ID deadline," Murphy said.
  The Real ID Act requires all travelers over age 18 to present Real ID-compliant identification to fly. Many states won't issue Real ID compliant driver's licenses without several forms of proof of identify.
  As of Oct. 1, 2020 , fliers who do not have a Real ID or an acceptable alternative form of identification will not be able to get past any domestic airport security checkpoint.
  Churchill Downs is dangling the possibility of postponing the 146th running of the Kentucky Derby until later this year. A decision is expected closer to race day on May 2, the company said. 
  The Derby has been held every year in May since 1875, except in 1945 when it was postponed by a month due to a nationwide ban on racing because of World War II.
  The storied race brings an estimated $400 million to the Louisville area each year.
  Churchill Downs spokeswoman Tonya Abeln issued a statement saying the company is pushing ahead with preparations for Derby 146 and would seek guidance from public health experts and federal, state and local authorities. 
  "Our operators are super concerned," said Stacy Roof, president and chief executive of the Kentucky Restaurant Association, which represents hundreds of local and regional restaurant owners. “They make several months of revenues off two weeks of the Derby.”
  —    Grace Schneider and Alfred Miller 
  Louisiana Secretary of State Kyle Ardoin announced Friday he has requested to delay the state's presidential primary for two months due to concerns over the coronavirus pandemic.
  The presidential primary was slated for April 4, but will be moved to June 20.
  According to the Monroe, La., Advertiser, Gov. John Bel Edwards will grant the delay.
  Louisiana is the only state that has announced it will delay its primaries due to coronavirus.
  – Rebecca Morin 
  In an effort to speed up testing for the coronavirus, the Food and Drug Administration says it has given New York state wide latitude to approve testing locally and has created a 24-hour emergency hotline for labs having difficulty getting materials or finding other impediments to running tests.
  The FDA said in a statement that it will allow the New York State Department of Health to authorize certain labs to begin testing patients after validating their tests and without first having to notify the FDA.
  "These labs will interact solely with (the New York State Department of Health) which should expedite the availability of patient testing in New York State," said FDA Commissioner Stephen M. Hahn. He said the decision "demonstrates FDA’s responsiveness to the needs of our country during this time.”
  In a related move, the Department of Health and Human Services says it is giving more than $1.2 million to two companies that are working on diagnostic tests that might be able to determine within an hour whether a patient tests positive for the coronavirus-related disease.
  Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, says the frustrating delay in testing for the disease is getting untangled and that predicts a "major escalation" in a week or two in widespread access to them.
  Fauci told MSNBC's "Morning Joe" on Friday that the major involvement of the private sector in the testing process will shortly break a logjam that has limited testing for the virus.
  Acknowledging said a "disconnect" in the past few weeks, he said: "Hopefully this is behind us. 
  "Within a week we are going to see a real escalation of testing and within two or three weeks we will see major progress," Fauci said.
  On Thursday, Fauci told Congress that the nation’s testing record to date was “a failing.”
  “The idea of anybody getting it easily the way people in other countries are doing it, we’re not set up for that. Do I think we should be? Yes. But we’re not,” he testified.
  More on COVID-19 tests: Coronavirus test component is in short supply 
  A  drive-thru coronavirus testing facility  opened Friday in New Rochelle, a New York City suburb that has been hit especially hard by by spreading disease.
  Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Friday that that testing at the site, which he called the first of its kind on the East Eoast, will be available by appointment only.
  New Rochelle residents — particularly those who have been quarantined — will be tested first, though all Westchester County residents will be eligible to make an appointment. As of Thursday, New York had 328 confirmed coronavirus cases, with 148 of those in Westchester County.
  The drive-up site features six lanes where medical personnell take swabs and send them to BioReference Laboratories for testing. The whole process takes about 15 minutes, Cuomo said.
  The drive-thru was opened after the U.S. Food and Drug Administration announced it had granted New York permission to authorize 28 private labs to begin testing
  – Matt Spillane and Jon Campbell, Rockland/Westchester Journal News 
  Virus-related deaths in Italy have made their biggest single day jump — 250 — as new infections in Italy soared by more than 2,500. On Friday, three weeks to the day since the country identified its first virus cluster in the north, Italy had a total of 17,600 confirmed cases, with 1,266 deaths.
  “Europe has now become the epicenter of the pandemic with more reported cases and deaths than the rest of the world combined, apart from China,” said World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. “More cases are now being reported every day than were reported in China at the height of its epidemic.”
  New infections also rose sharply in Spain, where the government put 60,000 people in four towns on a mandatory lockdown Friday.
   In Madrid, many of the 2,000 infections are in nursing homes, the government was pooling intensive care units and considering offers by hotel chains to transform rooms into sick wards.
  — Associated Press 
  Following the lead of other major sports events, two iconic sports events — the Masters golf tournament and the Boston Marathon — have been postponed.
  The golf tournament that was set to begin April 9  will be postponed indefinitely , the Augusta National Golf Club announced Friday, while Boston Mayor Marty Walsh said the Boston Marathon will be rescheduled for Sept. 14.
  The Augusta National Golf Club's decision to postpone golf’s first major of the season comes 12 hours after PGA Tour Commissioner Jay Monahan canceled the Players Championship after one round and declared all Tour events canceled through the Valero Texas Open, which is the tournament that precedes the Masters.
  Among other sports, Major League Baseball announced Thursday that it is halting spring training games and will delay Opening Day by at least two weeks due to the outbreak of coronavirus. The regular season was scheduled to begin on March 26.
  The  NBA suspended its season indefinitely  Wednesday night after Utah Jazz player Rudy Gobert tested positive for the virus.  Teammate Donovan Mitchell  has also tested positive.  The NHL followed suit and "paused" its season  on Thursday, as did  Major League Soccer .
  And the NCAA, which on Wednesday said it would play its men's and women's tournaments without fans, gave in to the inevitable Thursday and canceled them.
  – Jesse Yomtov, Bob Nightengale, Dan Wolken and Adam Schupak 
  More market news: European shares rebound after turbulent Asian session 
  The coronavirus economy: As Americans shy away from malls and movie theaters, the damage to livelihoods grows 
  Twelve states and several large urban school districts  are shutting down all K-12 schools  as part of a sweeping attempt to contain the spread of the coronavirus.
  Ohio, Maryland, Oregon, New Mexico, Michigan, West Virginia, Virginia, Louisiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, Washington and Alabama have ordered all schools closed. The governor of Kentucky has recommended closing all schools in that state. Major metropolitan districts in Atlanta, Denver, San Francisco, San Diego, Washington, D.C. and Austin, Texas have also shuttered. And a growing number of smaller districts around the country have also chosen to close.
  The actions are the first wave of widespread school closures in the U.S., and they stand to upend school and family routines for millions of children. 
  Thus far Washington State appears to have put the longest closure into place. There, public schools will not reopen until at least April 24 by order of the Governor. Gatherings and events of more than 250 people are banned statewide
  Such closures will also throw into sharp relief the deep socioeconomic divides in American education. Disadvantaged families who rely the most on schools for stable services, such as meals and access to learning materials, will be some of the most negatively affected.  Read more here. 
  – Erin Richards and Jessie Balmert  
  The federal Bureau of Prisons is immediately suspending inmate visitation and attorney-client meetings across its vast system for the next 30 days as a guard against the coronavirus, according to Justice Department guidelines.
  Exceptions for legal visitation will be made on a "case-by-case" basis.
  "Attorneys seeking an in-person visit with their client or a confidential call should contact the institution," according to the new policy. If approved, attorneys may have to be medically screened.
  In addition to visitation restrictions, all inmate transfers also are being stopped, though new admissions will continue. All staff travel is also being halted.
  With the exception of "essential services," including medical care, contractors' access to the 122 institutions is being restricted for the same period. All changes are effective immediately.
  – Kevin Johnson 
  The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has suspended services for more than 30,000 congregations worldwide as the new coronavirus spreads.
  The Utah-based faith, popularly known as the Mormon church, said in a statement Thursday that the decision, effectively immediately, was made after counseling with local church leaders, government officials and medical professionals and seeking "the Lord's guidance in these matters."
  The church urged local leaders to "conduct any essential leadership meetings via technology" and to counsel with other local leaders to determine how to make sacrament available to members at least once a month.
  Airbnb has updated its "extenuating circumstances" policy to cover the U.S., a marked change as the coronavirus spreads across the globe.
  This policy means that hosts and guests impacted by the coronavirus outbreak will be able to cancel their homes reservation or Airbnb Experience without getting charged for reservations booked on or before March 13, 2020 with check-in date of April 1, 2020, or earlier .  Read more here. 
  – David Oliver 
  Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's wife,  Sophie Grégoire Trudeau, has tested positive for coronavirus , according to a statement Thursday from Cameron Ahmad, communications director for the prime minster. "Following medical advice, she will remain in isolation for the time being. She is feeling well, is taking all recommended precautions, and her symptoms remain mild," Ahmad said. Prime Minister Trudeau isn't showing symptoms, but will be in an isolation period for 14 days. 
  Pelosi said Friday the U.S. death toll was at 41.
  There have been at least 31 in Washington and others in California, Florida, Georgia New Jersey and South Dakota. 
  There were more than 1,700 confirmed cases covering nearly the entire map, according to USA TODAY data gathering. The only states without reported cases: Alaska, Idaho, Maine, Montana and West Virginia. Montana is listed among states with confirmed cases in some databases; however, the lone Big Sky State case involves a local woman who tested positive while in Maryland and has not returned home.
  Here's a look at which U.S. states have reported cases of COVID-19:
  More on the outbreak of COVID-19: 
  Contributing: Steve Kiggins and Dennis Wagner, USA TODAY; The Associated Press 
 