This briefing has ended. Read  live global updates on the coronavirus here. 
  President Emmanuel Macron on Monday extended France’s lockdown until May 11 but vowed that there would be enough masks and tests by then to start lifting some restrictions.
  In his third solemn televised address since the epidemic began, Mr. Macron struck a delicate balance, as health authorities reported over 98,000 confirmed infections and nearly 15,000 deaths. He warned that the May 11 transition would only be possible if France continued to slow the epidemic, while promising that life would gradually return to normal.
  “The epidemic is not yet under control,” Mr. Macron said. But, he added, “hope is reborn.”
  He vowed that by May 11, the authorities would be ready to test and quarantine anyone with symptoms and that “general public” masks would be available for all.
  Beginning on that date, daycare centers and schools will reopen, Mr. Macron said, but France’s most vulnerable citizens, mainly the elderly, will have to remain confined, “at least initially.” Many people will be allowed to return to work.
  But many businesses, including    restaurants, hotels, museums and theaters, will remain shuttered. And travel from non-European Union countries will remain banned “until further notice.”
  The number of patients in intensive care is declining, along with the rates of new infections and deaths, easing the  strain on France’s admired health system .    Still, the government has come under criticism for a shortage of protective masks and a lack of widespread testing.
  “Were we ready for this crisis? Evidently, not enough,” Mr. Macron said. He acknowledged government errors, which he promised would be remedied.
  But he also touted successes like doubling the number of intensive care beds, and promised continued aid to affected people and businesses.
  “When will we be able to go back to our prior life?” Mr. Macron asked. “Quite frankly, humbly, we have no definitive answer to that.” 
  
  President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia offered his bleakest comments yet on his country’s handling of the pandemic, warning officials on Monday that the number of severely ill patients was rising and that medical workers faced shortages of protective equipment.
  “We have a lot of problems, and we don’t have much to brag about, nor reason to, and we certainly can’t relax,” Mr. Putin told senior officials in a televised videoconference that he conducted from his residence outside Moscow. “We are not past the peak of the epidemic, not even in Moscow.”
  Russia’s total number of confirmed cases reached 18,328, double the level of five days earlier, with roughly two-thirds of them in Moscow. The number of deaths stood at 148 nationwide.
  Moscow’s health system in particular was under growing strain, and state television reported hours-long lines of ambulances waiting to admit suspected coronavirus patients into hospitals. The authorities tightened their lockdown on the city of 13 million people, directing residents to apply online for permission to leave their homes.
  Mr. Putin’s dour tone Monday was part of a sharp shift in Russia’s official rhetoric on the crisis, with hope fading that the country might escape being hit hard by the pandemic. He directed officials to remedy shortages in medical workers’ protective equipment and to share ventilators and medicine across Russia’s far-flung regions to respond to geographic differences in demand.
  “All scenarios of how the situation could develop must be taken into account, including the most difficult and extraordinary ones,” Mr. Putin said.
  Turkey’s Parliament passed a law early Tuesday that would allow for the release of tens of thousands of prisoners to protect detainees from being infected by the coronavirus.
  The bill will allow for the temporary release of about 45,000 prisoners, but it excluded those jailed on terrorism charges,  according to the Anadolu Agency ,    a Turkish state-run news agency. 
  The bill was supported by 279 lawmakers, while 51 voted against it, according to Anadolu. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s political party, the Justice and Development Party, supported the bill, as did its nationalist allies. 
  Aside from those jailed on terrorism charges, prisoners detained for sex offenses, drug offenses and first-degree murder were also excluded.
  The law has been criticized by opposition parties for excluding those jailed on terrorism charges, which include journalists and politicians swept up in a crackdown following a coup attempt in 2016.
  Justice Minister Abdulhamit Gul on Monday said there were 17 cases of the coronavirus in five prisons, and that three inmates had died from the virus. Turkey has  recorded 56,956 coronavirus cases and 1,198 deaths .
  In the United States and around the world, outbreaks have  spread quickly in prisons , where social distancing is impossible. In response, some prisons have released inmates to contain outbreaks, though critics say officials have been too slow to act. 
  Earlier this month,  Attorney General William P. Barr  ordered the Bureau of Prisons to expand the group of federal inmates eligible for early release and to prioritize those at three facilities where known coronavirus cases have grown precipitously, as the virus threatens to overwhelm prison medical facilities and nearby hospitals.
    
  In Libya’s capital, Tripoli, people are facing a dire decision — stay inside to slow the spread of coronavirus or flee from the missiles that are hitting their homes. 
  “I sometimes wonder, you know, which death is going to be worse: catching corona or being instantly attacked by a missile,” said one woman, who asked to remain anonymous for her safety.
  Both parties in the country’s ongoing civil war, the U.N.-recognized Government of National Accord and the Libyan National Army, led by military strongman Khalifa Hifter, agreed to a humanitarian pause in fighting to prepare for the virus. But Times reporting shows that within ten minutes of announcing its agreement, Mr. Hifter’s group resumed attacks on civilian areas.
  The pandemic threatens the country’s already fragile health care system, but the war shows no signs of slowing down. There were 25 confirmed cases of coronavirus in Libya as of April 12, but testing is extremely limited. One hospital complex, designated to treat coronavirus patients, was struck three times in less than a week. Residents in Tripoli say they are facing some of the worst shelling they can remember. 
  With the new threat of the coronavirus, they have nowhere to run.
  In his seven years in power in Venezuela, President Nicolás  Maduro has weathered a series of crises  and attempts to topple him, always emerging in firm control despite his country’s tattered economy.
  But the coronavirus pandemic is contributing to his greatest challenge yet.
  Around the world, lockdowns to contain the virus have caused demand and prices for oil, Venezuela’s main export, to plummet. Last month his ally, Russia, and Saudi Arabia entered into an oil price war that suppressed prices even further. They have r eached a deal  to reduce production by about 10 percent of global production, but demand is down by much more than that.
  Then the Russian oil giant, Rosneft, Venezuela’s main trading partner,  halted operations there.  Venezuela’s output of oil collapsed; not only was it too cheap to produce profitably, the country had lost its main outlet for selling crude or trading it for refined gasoline.
  Gasoline supplies fell sharply, bringing much of Venezuela to a standstill.
  Now the deadly pandemic is spreading through Latin America and reaching into Venezuela, a country whose health care systems have deteriorated so far that  they lack even the most basic supplies. 
  “The regime is in survival mode,” said Michael Penfold, a Caracas-based fellow at the Wilson Center, a research group. “The country is entering into a very fragile equilibrium that’s going to be increasingly difficult to maintain.”
  Mr. Maduro, who was recently  indicted in the United States on drug charges , was among the first Latin American leaders to act against the virus, rolling out a national lockdown on March 15 — compounding the economic calamity — two days after confirming the first infection in the country.
  As of Monday, the government said, there had been 181 cases and nine deaths, but it is hard to gauge how many have gone unreported.
  With infections and deaths still rising in the United States, public health and business experts warned Monday that the country’s devastated economy will be slow to recover.
  President Trump is eager to ease lockdown measures and minimize the economic damage.  Governors are urging caution , fearing a resurgence of the coronavirus. Seven states on the East Coast said they would coordinate on when to reopen the region. California, Oregon and Washington announced a similar effort.
  At the same time, the president’s trade adviser, Peter Navarro, said  the shutdown could do more damage to the nation’s health  than the virus itself. Dr. Robert Redfield, the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said Monday that he expected reopening to play out “community by community,” but that it would require the country to “substantially augment our public health capacity.”
  The United States has had more than 555,000 confirmed cases and over 22,000 deaths from the epidemic, more than any other country has reported.
  At a White House briefing on Monday, Mr. Trump said the administration was “very close to completing a plan to open our country hopefully even ahead of schedule,” saying it would “soon finalize new and very important guidelines to give governors the information they need to start safely opening their states.”
  Mr. Trump added that “we want to be very, very safe” in terms of lifting restrictions, but said that Americans were eager to get back to work.
  In New York, the hardest-hit state, the death toll passed 10,000 on Monday, but Gov. Andrew Cuomo said  “the worst is over if we continue to be smart.”  The number of coronavirus-related hospital admissions and deaths, though high, continued to decline.
  Compared to the Northeast, California, Washington and Oregon, which were hit first by the virus, continued to do fairly well. Experts said that relative success reflects the West Coast states’  earlier, more aggressive efforts to shut down public life .
  [Analysis:  Oil collapse and covid-19 create toxic geopolitical stew .] 
  And in Guam, a crew member of the aircraft carrier Theodore Roosevelt died from Covid-19, the first fatality from the outbreak aboard a ship whose captain, Brett E. Crozier, had said that the Pentagon was not treating the outbreak seriously enough.
  The captain, who is ill with the virus, was removed from his post when his complaints became publicly known. More than 580 of the ship’s crew members have been infected.
  Li Wenliang, the Wuhan doctor who was threatened by the authorities for raising the alarm about the outbreak — and who later died of Covid-19 —    is  seen as a martyr  by many people in China. 
  After his death on Feb. 6, supporters began to gather at his last post on Weibo, the social media platform, to grieve together. They have left more than 870,000 comments. Only posts by China’s biggest actors and pop stars can match those numbers, but even those lack the visceral response that Dr. Li’s last post has drawn.
  Li Yuan, who writes the  New New World column  for The New York Times, focusing on the intersection of technology, business and politics in China and across Asia, read through thousands of the comments.    
  The page is sometimes called China’s Wailing Wall, a reference to  the Western Wall in Jerusalem  where people leave written prayers in the cracks.
  Some people post a few times a day, telling Dr. Li how their mornings, afternoons and evenings went. Because many people see him as an ordinary person wronged by the authorities and as a hero who stood up to power, they come to him to express their frustration that justice and righteousness haven’t prevailed.
  Some people complain that the comments are censored, an allegation that is difficult to prove. They worry that his Weibo account could be deleted, just like many others. Then, they will lose the only place they can take a break from a world that has been turned upside down.
  Monday was supposed to be the day when Britain might have started to lift its lockdown, but with no sign yet that the epidemic there is abating, the government is expected to leave the restrictions in place until well into next month.
  The country reported 717 new deaths from the virus, bringing its total to 11,329. It has 88,621 confirmed cases, surpassing the reported total in China.
  When Prime Minister Boris Johnson imposed the lockdown on March 23, he said the government would review it on April 13. But officials have signaled it is too soon to ease the measures.
  “We have come too far, lost too many loved ones and sacrificed too much to ease up,” Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said on Monday at a news conference.
  The latest death figure was smaller than those reported late last week, but numbers are typically lower on the weekend because of a lag in reporting. 
  China’s number of confirmed cases is widely suspected to be understated, though medical experts said the number of infected people in Britain was also likely higher because of a lack of widespread testing. 
  Britons were cheered on Sunday after Mr. Johnson was released from the hospital following his own serious bout with the virus. But now, as he convalesces at his country residence, Chequers, attention is shifting back to the broader trajectory of the outbreak, which is increasingly worrisome.
  The number of known infections and fatalities is rising faster in Britain than anywhere else in Europe, putting it on track to reach the death totals in Italy and Spain. 
  Jeremy Farrar, a leading British medical researcher who is director of the Wellcome Trust, told the BBC on Sunday that Britain is “likely to be one of the worst, if not the worst, affected countries in Europe.”
  In an example of how initial successes of a social distancing campaign can fade once restrictions are relaxed, Hokkaido, Japan’s northernmost island, declared a state of emergency for a second time on Sunday and called on residents to stay at home for all but the most essential outings.
  Hokkaido’s governor said the government was taking action because of a second wave of infections. Long before Japan’s central government issued a  state of emergency  for the country’s seven largest prefectures last week, Hokkaido called for a soft lockdown of the region on Feb. 28. As cases appeared to come under control, the prefecture lifted the state of emergency two weeks later and slowly allowed schools to reopen.
  Overall case numbers remain low in Hokkaido, but the government is concerned about how quickly they are multiplying. Four new cases were confirmed on April 7, and that figure tripled within five days.
  On Sunday, Hokkaido and Sapporo, the provincial capital, asked residents to refrain from going out, cease traveling and avoid restaurants — particularly for “business entertainment.”
  In Osaka, Japan’s third-largest city, the governor urged on Monday that businesses like night clubs, internet cafes, karaoke venues, pachinko parlors, movie theaters, gyms, museums and libraries close until May 6. The move followed similar requests in Tokyo. 
  Under the law authorizing the state of emergency, governors have the power only to request that businesses close. Those who do not comply can be publicized, but not officially punished.
  Japan’s health ministry reported 530 new cases and four deaths on Sunday, taking Japan’s total to 7,255 cases and 102 deaths. Tokyo reported 166 new cases on Sunday, more than half of which were concentrated in one hospital — the latest of several recent clusters at the country’s hospitals.
  A surge of Chinese people returning from Russia, which is now  experiencing its own spike in infections , has fueled the largest increase in reported new cases in China in more than a month.
  Chinese officials said on Monday that 98 new infections were reported among people who recently arrived in China. Most of those were Chinese citizens who had apparently scrambled to return to their homeland after China limited flights in and out of the country.
  Previously, an Aeroflot flight from Moscow to Shanghai on April 10 carried 60 people who ultimately tested positive for the coronavirus. The passengers were all quarantined.
  That flight arrived just days after China said that it would close, effective Monday, its last overland crossing at Suifenhe, a small city across the border from Russia’s Far East.
  Many Chinese people seeking to leave Russia have flown from Moscow to Vladivostok in hopes of completing the last leg by land. The Chinese Consulate in Vladivostok said in  a statement  on Sunday that 243 Chinese citizens infected with the coronavirus had already crossed the border. 
  So many cases have emerged in the borderlands that the local government  has opened  a temporary hospital to deal with the caseload.
  Russia closed its borders with China in January, hoping to staunch the spread of the pandemic, only to find itself facing a belated spike in cases. By Monday, Russia had  nearly 16,000  cases and at least 130 deaths.
  A cargo plane from the United Arab Emirates touched down on Monday evening at the airport in the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa, carrying thousands of boxes loaded with 50 tons of aprons, face shields, gloves, goggles, gowns, masks and thermometers, which airport staff quickly offloaded for sorting.
  The operation in Addis Ababa is the first of eight new “humanitarian hubs” that the United Nations is setting up at airports around the world to distribute medical supplies and personal protective equipment for health care workers to respond to the coronavirus pandemic.
  The other hubs will be in Belgium, China, Ghana, Malaysia, Panama, South Africa and the United Arab Emirates, the U.N. said. But some of those locations will not be set up for several weeks.
  Steven Were Omamo, the country director in Ethiopia for the U.N.’s World Food Program, said the initiative, part of a $2 billion funding appeal launched last month by the U.N., was born out of experience with the Ebola virus outbreak in West Africa in 2014.
  “The need for a strong global supply chain is essential in fighting this pandemic,” he said.
  Under bright floodlights, the airport staff hustled to unload the cargo plane, which parked next to dozens of aircraft belonging to Ethiopian Airlines, which has grounded its commercial flights. On Tuesday, five flights run by Ethiopian Airlines will ferry supplies from Addis Ababa to Eritrea, Djibouti, Somalia, Sudan and Tanzania.
  Noticeably lacking from the delivery were pricier items like ventilators, oxygen cylinders and intensive care units.
  The pandemic has hit African countries unevenly, with some reporting very few cases, and others hundreds. South Africa has reported the most, with more than 2,000 cases. Over all, the  African Centers for Disease Control has tallied  14,744 cases on the continent, and 793 deaths.
  The Japanese conglomerate SoftBank warned investors on Monday that the value of its tech fund may have dropped by as much as $16.7 billion over the last fiscal year, a surprise announcement that came as the coronavirus rocked a portfolio already weakened by losses on big bets like WeWork.
  SoftBank has used its $100 billion purse to make huge wagers on companies like WeWork and Uber that it thought could fundamentally remake industries, drive out competitors and generate gigantic profits.
  But in a statement posted to its website, SoftBank  said  that it anticipated that the fund would record a loss of 1.8 trillion yen (about $16.6 billion) for the fiscal year that ended in March “due to the deteriorating market environment.”
  The loss will be partially offset by revenue from SoftBank’s other businesses, with the company saying it expects to end the year 1.35 trillion yen in the red — its first annual loss in 15 years.
  While the coronavirus has been devastating for many companies, SoftBank’s investments in tech companies that provide services like ride sharing and hotel booking have made it particularly vulnerable to the economic disruptions caused by the pandemic.
  In October, the company pledged almost $10 billion to bail out WeWork after its highly anticipated initial public stock offering fell apart over accusations of mismanagement. In March, SoftBank’s bet on the satellite start-up OneWeb  went bad  when the company announced that it had filed for bankruptcy and planned to sell itself.
  SoftBank  said last month that it would sell $41 billion dollars of its assets  to shore up its cash position and finance an $18 billion investment in its own shares.
  
  For the fourth time in six days, Italian officials reported fewer than 600 coronavirus-linked deaths on Monday, a significant drop from the  peak of the country’s crisis  in late March and early April, when it was averaging about 800 fatalities per day. 
  And even as the total number of fatalities surpassed 20,000 on Monday, officials and public health experts in the country said the reductions of new cases and fatalities were evidence of a hopeful turn. 
  “The trend is now trustworthy,” Luca Richeldi, a pulmonologist who is on the scientific committee that is advising the government, said at a news conference. “Putting together the drop of people being hospitalized, patients in I.C.U. and the number of people dying, we can say that the measures that were adopted and extended are having an impact on this virus.”
  Italy reported 566 deaths on Monday and 431 on Sunday, the lowest figure in more than three weeks.
  Officials also said that for the tenth day in a row, the number of people hospitalized in intensive care fell on Monday.
  The drop in numbers has considerably relieved the pressure on Italy’s national health system, Dr. Richeldi said, which had  been strained by an influx of patients last month. 
  As of Monday, more than 159,000 people in Italy have tested positive for the coronavirus, surpassed in Europe only by Spain — an increase that Dr. Richeldi attributed in part to an uptick in testing. 
  Angelo Borrelli, the head of the Civil Protection Department, said that the group of experts who are managing the next phase of the government’s response had met with Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte over the weekend. The committee is working on an “inventory of solutions and proposals,” Mr. Borrelli said.
  While the government has extended lockdown measures until May 3, businesses like children’s clothing stores and stationery and book shops will reopen on Tuesday.
  At bus stops and subway stations in Madrid on Monday, transit workers and police officers handed out face masks to commuters who showed papers indicating that they were returning to work. A partial loosening of restrictions, the government’s first step in easing  a national lockdown , comes amid political feuding over whether the move will reignite an outbreak.
  The reopening of construction sites and factories begins on Monday in half of Spain’s 17 regions, with others following on Tuesday. Other companies have been allowed to recall some employees. 
  The director of a Michelin factory in Valladolid told Spanish national television that workers would return gradually. And Alu Ibérica, an aluminum company, resumed its recycling activities on Monday with a third of its work force. 
  The government also issued recommendations for workers, including washing clothes at high temperatures after returning home and using their own water bottles rather than drinking from water fountains. 
  Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez said on Sunday that the general lockdown was still in place. “The only thing that has ended is the extreme measure of hibernation” of the economy, he said.    
  On Monday, Spain reported a decline in the daily casualty rate — with 517 dead overnight, bringing the overall tally to nearly 17,500, the second highest in Europe. Spain has almost 170,000 confirmed infections. 
  Some regional leaders, opposition politicians and labor unions said they feared that the partial return to work would set off a new wave of infections.
  “Companies must have the means to protect us,” Pepe Álvarez, the secretary general of the UGT union, told Spanish television. “Nobody can make us choose between working safely or facing difficulties to maintain our job.” 
  Millions of migrant workers in Persian Gulf countries have found themselves locked down, laid off and stranded, with no place to turn for help amid the coronavirus outbreak. Qatar alone has locked down tens of thousands of migrant workers in a crowded neighborhood, raising fears of a rampant spread of the virus there. 
  Companies in Saudi Arabia have told foreign laborers to stay home — then stopped paying them. In Kuwait, an actress said on television that migrants should be thrown out “into the desert.”
  The oil-rich monarchies of the Persian Gulf have long relied on armies of low-paid migrant workers from Asia, Africa and elsewhere to do the heavy lifting in their economies, and have faced criticism from rights groups for treating those laborers poorly.
  Now, the coronavirus has made matters worse, as migrants in Gulf States are locked down in cramped, unsanitary dorms, deprived of income and unable to return home because of travel restrictions.
  Some are running out of food and money, and fear that they have no place to turn in societies that often treat them like an expendable underclass.
  “Nobody called us,” said Mohamed al-Sayid, an Egyptian restaurant worker who lives with seven friends in a one-room apartment in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia — and all are now unemployed. “Nobody checked on us at all. I’m not afraid of corona. I’m afraid we’ll die from hunger.”
  Oil-producing nations on Sunday agreed to the  largest production cut ever negotiated , in an unprecedented coordinated effort by Russia, Saudi Arabia and the United States to stabilize oil prices and, indirectly, global financial markets.
  It was unclear, however, whether the cuts would be enough to bolster prices. Before the coronavirus crisis, 100 million barrels of oil each day fueled global commerce, but demand is down about 35 percent. While significant, the cuts fall far short of what is needed to bring oil production in line with demand.
  The plan by OPEC, Russia and other allied producers in a group known as OPEC Plus will slash 9.7 million barrels a day in May and June, or close to 10 percent of the world’s output.
  The agreement was the result of more than a week of telephone conversations involving Mr. Trump; the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman; and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. It should bring some relief to struggling economies in the Middle East and Africa and global oil companies, including American firms that directly and indirectly employ 10 million workers. 
  “This is at least a temporary relief for the energy industry and for the global economy,” said Per Magnus Nysveen, head of analysis for Rystad Energy, a Norwegian consultancy. “The industry is too big to be let to fail.”
  The  reaction in oil markets  on Monday was largely muted. The U.S. oil price benchmark ended the day at $22.41, or less than half of where it was at the start of the year.
  A small study of chloroquine, which is closely related to the hydroxychloroquine drug that  President Trump has promoted , was halted in Brazil after  coronavirus patients taking a higher dose developed irregular heart rates  that increased their risk of a potentially fatal arrhythmia.
  The study, which involved 81 hospitalized patients in the city of Manaus, was sponsored by the Brazilian state of Amazonas. Roughly half the participants were prescribed 450 milligrams of chloroquine twice daily for five days, while the rest were prescribed 600 milligrams for 10 days. 
  Within three days, researchers started noticing heart arrhythmias in patients taking the higher dose. By the sixth day of treatment, 11 patients had died, leading to an immediate end to the high-dose segment of the trial.
  “To me, this study conveys one useful piece of information, which is that chloroquine causes a dose-dependent increase in an abnormality in the E.C.G. that could predispose people to sudden cardiac death,” said Dr. David Juurlink, an internist and the head of the division of clinical pharmacology at the University of Toronto, referring to an electrocardiogram, which reads the heart’s electrical activity.
  The researchers said the study did not have enough patients in the lower-dose trial to conclude whether chloroquine was effective in patients with severe cases of Covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus.
  Patients in the trial were also given the antibiotic azithromycin, which carries the same heart risk. Hospitals in the United States are using azithromycin to treat coronavirus patients, often in combination with hydroxychloroquine.
  President Trump has promoted them as a potential  treatment for the coronavirus despite little evidence that they work , and despite concerns from health officials. Companies that manufacture both drugs are ramping up production.
 