WASHINGTON – The White House Friday issued a revised transcript of an earlier coronavirus task force news conference to clarify that Deborah Birx, a top adviser to President Donald Trump, said sunlight and heat were not treatments for the coronavirus. 
  The original transcript released after Thursday's briefing quoted Birx as saying   sunlight was an option for treating the virus. The corrected transcript made clear that she had, in fact, made the opposite point. 
  Trump  floated the idea  of using ultraviolet light or disinfectants to treat COVID-19 in the Thursday news conference after touting a study from the Department of Homeland Security, and then asked Birx her opinion on the treatment.
  His remarks drew a firestorm of criticism Friday from doctors and public health officials and prompted several state agencies to warn Americans against applying or ingesting disinfectants.  The maker of Lysol issued a statement  asserting that "under no circumstance" should the product be used to treat the virus.
  "I can't believe I'm writing this, but just to be 100% clear: Do not inject yourself with disinfectants.These are poisons," Leana Wen, a visiting professor of health policy and management at George Washington University, posted on Twitter – mirroring the kind of reaction Trump's remarks drew throughout the day.
  "They will damage blood vessels and tissues," Wen added. "You could die."
  Asked by a reporter during the briefing Thursday whether it was "dangerous" to make people think it could be safe to go outside in heat and humidity, Trump asked Birx, "Have you ever heard of that? The heat and the light, relative to certain viruses, yes, but relative to this virus?"
  Birx responded, "Not as a treatment. I mean, certainly fever ... is a good thing. When you have a fever, it helps your body respond." 
  Trump added, "I think it’s a great thing to look at. I mean, you know."
  A transcript the White House released Thursday evening originally referenced Birx saying, "That is a treatment." 
  Corrected remarks sent out Friday morning changed that line to "not as a treatment." 
  More: Trump floats sunlight as possible coronavirus treatment but experts say there's no medical basis for that idea 
  One administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said it was a simple mistake and the White House sought to correct it as soon as possible.
  Trump earlier highlighted a Department of Homeland Security study indicating sunlight and humidity could weaken the coronavirus, though a top official, Bill Bryan, an undersecretary of science and technology at the Department of Homeland Security, cautioned against changing behavior based on the study. 
  Bryan told reporters it would be "irresponsible for us to say that we feel that the summer is just going to totally kill the virus."
  Contributing: David Jackson, John Fritze 
 