Thanks to rising coronavirus infections in the U.S., most Americans' Fourth of July celebrations this year won't include a community fireworks display, a trip to a crowded beach or a big backyard barbecue — or at least that's what  many health officials are hoping . 
  It's a starkly different situation from the nation's last major holiday. Over Memorial Day, the U.S. was emerging from a months-long lockdown with states rapidly rolling back business closures and social distancing regulations. Coronavirus case counts showed promising trends and calls to reopen the economy had grown fierce.
  But it's a different story heading this Fourth of July. 
  A national spike in COVID-19 cases in recent weeks has led nearly  half of U.S. states  to take new steps to limit the spread of the virus, with many making special rules to combat crowds over the holiday weekend. That comes as the infection curve is rising in about 40 states.
  As cases surge in  Florida ,  California  and  Texas , some beaches are closing in an effort to discourage large crowds over the holiday. But backyard gatherings — an iconic staple of the Fourth of July holiday — are perhaps even more concerning to public health officials.
  Here are some recent developments: 
  📈 Today's stats:  The U.S. recorded 52,104 new cases of the coronavirus Friday, the third day in the row that daily cases surpassed 50,000, according to a tally kept by Johns Hopkins University. The U.S. has seen more than 2.8 million confirmed cases and more than 129,000 deaths. Globally, there have been more than 11.1 million cases and more than 527,000 deaths.
  📰  What we're reading:  The CDC is calling on Americans to remain vigilant this Fourth of July by social distancing and wearing face masks. So we've  compiled these tips for creating a special Fourth of July  while following guidelines to slow the spread of COVID-19.
  Our live blog will be updated throughout the day. For first-in-the-morning updates,  sign up for The Daily Briefing . 
  Governors and health officials are urging Americans to wear face masks and social distance, but while some fireworks shows and events were canceled, there are still many still happening across the U.S. Here's a look:
  Amid thousands of protests against police brutality and a pandemic that has disproportionately ravaged communities of color, many people planned to spend Fourth of July drawing attention to what they say is a hypocritical celebration of freedom.
  Rallies, marches and sit-ins were planned Saturday  in Chicago, Washington, D.C., Los Angeles and more than a dozen other U.S. cities.
  Organizers said they planned to ask everyone to social distance, wear masks and use hand sanitizer to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. Medical personnel would also be handing out face masks.
  "Of course, you're always going to be scared, but it's for the movement for Black liberation. You have to risk (for) that," said D.C.-based organizer Kerrigan William, who said she is immunocompromised.
  – Grace Hauck 
  Florida reported  11,458 new cases of the coronavirus  Saturday, setting a record for most new cases in one day. It is the eleventh straight day that the state counted at least 5,000 new cases, according to data from the Florida Department of Health.
  While  many beaches are closed , there are some open on South Florida's east coast. By noon Friday, beach access parking lots in Indian River County  had started to fill  and families had staked-their claims on the sand with umbrellas, tents and canopies.
  In Vero Beach, officials are only allowing beach access to city and county residents and are checking people's identification. 
  The total number of COVID-19 cases statewide is now 190,052. The state has more than tripled the total number of cases since its Phase 2 reopening began June 5. Bars were closed for the second time during the pandemic June 26 to try to limit the spread of the virus.
  — Rachael Thomas and Corey Arwood, Treasure Coast Newspapers 
  Despite objections from health officials,  President Donald Trump is hosting hundreds of people for a Fourth of July party  at the White House that will feature music and fireworks. This year's event is somewhat scaled back – there won't be armored military vehicles on display at the Lincoln Memorial, as happened last year.
  The fight against the coronavirus pandemic is even a theme of what the White House calls a "Salute to America." Invited guests include doctors, nurses, and other front-line responders to the COVID-19 crisis, as well as members of the military, law enforcement and their families.
  Given the recent spikes in COVID-19 cases, the White House said it will provide face masks and hand sanitizer to guests, and encourage social distancing. Some guests will be on the Ellipse just south of the White House.
  Washington, D.C., Mayor Muriel Bowser, who canceled the traditional Fourth of July parade in the nation's capital, said her office informed Trump's Interior Department that the event it is planning violates the health guidelines set by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
  Thousands of people are expected to gather up and down the National Mall to watch fireworks.
  – David Jackson 
  One day after President Donald Trump spoke to a largely maskless audience at a Fourth of July celebration at Mount Rushmore, former Vice President Joe Biden declared face-covering during the COVID-19 pandemic an expression of patriotism. 
  "This Fourth of July, one of the most patriotic things you can do is wear a mask,"  he tweeted Saturday .
  Arizona reported 2,695 new COVID-19 cases  and 17 additional deaths on Saturday, according to data from the Arizona Department of Health Services.
  The number of people in the hospitals and using ICU beds again broke records Friday. Saturday's dashboard shows 85% of current inpatient beds and 90% of ICU beds were in use, which includes people being treated for COVID-19 and other patients.
  Arizona is among the worst hot spots in the nation for COVID-19. The disease is widespread here, and health officials caution people to stay home as much as possible and wear masks in public.
  Vice President Mike Pence, who visited Arizona on Wednesday, said he is deploying hundreds of medical personnel to assist the state.
  – BrieAnna J. Frank, Arizona Republic 
  Costco is the largest retailer staying closed on Independence Day, which it traditionally does for other holidays too, including New Year's Day, Easter, Memorial Day and Labor Day. 
  This year, Trader Joe's is closed, a change from past years when it operated with reduced hours, "to give all of our Crew Members a much needed and well-deserved day of rest," the grocer said on its website.
  Read the full list  of  retailers, grocery stores and restaurants .
  — Kelly Tyko 
  Houston's fire chief says 307 firefighters — a record — are in quarantine because of exposure to COVID-10 and their absence is putting an "extreme strain" on the department. Houston is among the hardest hit cities in Texas, which is reeling from new cases of the virus.
  "We will respond when called, but I also encourage citizens to help us by following health and safety protocols during the current public health crisis," Chief Sam Pena  said in a statement  Friday . "Please wear a mask, physical distance and wash your hands. Do not use fireworks during the July 4th holiday weekend because they can cause fires and create an additional strain on our resources."
  Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner authorized additional overtime pay for firefighters.
  Patrick Lancton, president of the Houston Professional Firefighters Association, said some firefighters have been working for two and three days straight. He said they will continue to answer calls but warned that the fire department is "at a breaking point, and has been for a long time."
  — Doug Stanglin 
  A  Trump 2020 campaign official and the girlfriend of Donald Trump Jr. , tested positive for the coronavirus ahead of the president's celebration event at Mount Rushmore on Friday.
  Kimberly Guilfoyle and Trump Jr., who tested negative on Friday, will cancel their upcoming events and will self-isolate, according to Sergio Gor, chief of staff to Trump Victory Finance committee.
  "She’s doing well, and will be retested to ensure the diagnosis is correct since she’s asymptomatic," Gor said in a statement. "But as a precaution will cancel all upcoming events. Donald Trump Jr. was tested negative, but as a precaution is also self isolating and is canceling all public events."
  Guilfoyle traveled to South Dakota with Trump Jr., but not aboard Air Force One with the president, according to The New York Times and ABC News.
  – Jeanine Santucci 
  Tribal police for the Navajo Nation and the New Mexico National Guard plan to enforce a curfew to shut down the Navajo reservation during the Fourth of July weekend.
  The sprawling reservation has been trying to contain a coronavirus outbreak. Tribal President Jonathan Nez says the curfew will run until 5 a.m. Monday. He says it is the first of three consecutive weekend lockdowns.
  Nez warns that enforcement on the reservation that spans parts of Arizona, New Mexico and Utah will be strict.
  The tribe reported 64 new confirmed coronavirus cases Friday and two more deaths.
  — Associated Press 
  Major League Baseball, resuming spring training Friday, announced that 3 1 players and seven staff members  tested positive for COVID-19 as part of intake screening. The 38 positives were 1.2% of the 3,185 total samples collected and tested, according to the league.
  Teams are not permitted to identify the players who tested positive for COVID-19, but two players, Delino DeShields Jr. of the Cleveland Indians and Brett Martin of the Texas Rangers each revealed their positive tests. Any player who tests positive for COVID-19 must test negative twice at least 24 hours apart from one another, with no fever for 72 hours, before he can rejoin a team.
  Atlanta Braves All-Star first baseman Freddie Freeman  and three other players are out indefinitely after testing positive.
  — Bob Nightengale 
  Where a face mask is required : Many governors are instituting or renewing orders requiring people to wear face coverings in public as cases continue to rise. Is your state on the list?  See it here.  
  Coronavirus Watch:  We have a few ways for you to stay informed.  Sign up for our daily coronavirus newsletter here , and come together and share the latest information about coronavirus, coping with lifestyle changes and more by  joining our Facebook group .
  Where are states on reopening?  Some are taking preemptive measures to postpone further phases of their reopening, while others have rolled back their phases to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.  See the list .
  Contributing: The Associated Press 
 