Montgomery:  More than two dozen Alabama law professors and former law enforcement officers  urged Gov. Kay Ivey on Monday to reduce the number of inmates in state prisons , warning that a COVID-19 outbreak in correctional facilities could create a “public health catastrophe.” In a letter to Ivey, the signatories urged the governor to use her emergency powers to restart parole hearings with proper health precautions in place and focus on the release of prisoners age 50 or older and those with compromised immune systems. The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Alabama  neared 1,000 as reported deaths continued to climb , and a federal judge ruled the state could not prohibit abortions during the outbreak, granting a temporary restraining order to prevent the state from shutting down abortion clinics as a nonessential medical service during the outbreak.
  Juneau:  Alaskans who found themselves suddenly out of work or working reduced hours because of shutdowns related to the coronavirus were buoyed by news last week that lawmakers had proposed paying a $1,000 stimulus check to residents. Checks would have gone to residents who received Alaska Permanent Fund dividends last year – most Alaskans – regardless of need. But the stimulus check was removed from the compromise version of a budget advanced by House and Senate negotiators, leaving some lawmakers upset. Rep. Cathy Tilton of Wasilla, in a floor speech before the package passed the House early Sunday, said people got their hopes up after the Senate inclusion of the payment. “I believe in expectation management, Mr. Speaker, and shame on us because we got their expectations up,” said Tilton, a minority Republican. Other lawmakers said they were trying to be careful stewards with the state’s resources.
  Phoenix:  Gov. Doug Ducey on Monday imposed a stay-at-home order to slow the spread of the new coronavirus, to take effect at the close of business Tuesday. But he said grocery stores, pharmacies and other essential services will remain open, and restaurants will continue takeout service. The order doesn’t prevent people from going to medical appointments or seeking other essential services from a long list he outlined last week. He also discouraged hoarding. “They will remain open, and everyone should continue to buy one week’s worth of groceries for one week’s worth of needs,” he said. The governor said he took the action after the state’s top health official said it was necessary to slow the spread of the COVID-19 disease caused by the virus. Dr. Cara Christ, who oversees the Department of Health Services, said the rate of cases being seen in emergency rooms has been steadily rising from 2% to nearly 7% of all visits. The governor said people should still enjoy the outdoors, while practicing social distancing.
  Little Rock:  Gov. Asa Hutchinson said Monday that he has approved an additional $45  million to purchase protective equipment for medical providers and for ventilators due to the coronavirus. The money is in addition to $30  million previously approved for protective equipment used by medical staff and others responding to coronavirus patients. Hutchinson said the extra money will be used when the equipment becomes available as the state competes with others, including hot spots such as New York City and New Orleans, for scarce supplies. “We can place an order, (and) the Department of Defense might come in and say, ‘We need that,’ or it might be New York offering a premium,” Hutchinson said. 
  Los Angeles:  The state is recruiting thousands of retired health care workers along with medical and nursing students to help as emergency hospitals that could include sites like the Los Angeles Coliseum and other sports arenas handle an anticipated flood of coronavirus patients, Gov. Gavin Newsom said Monday. He signed an executive order to temporarily expand the health care workforce to staff the facilities that will supply the 50,000 hospital beds he estimated could be needed when the surge peaks. State models now estimate the peak occurring in mid-May. The state will waive certain professional licensing and certification requirements to get workers in the field faster. “If you’re a nursing school student, a medical school student, we need you,” Newsom said. “If you’ve just retired in the last few years, we need you.”
  Denver:  The spread of coronavirus cases in the state has slowed following the closure of bars and restaurants, Gov. Jared Polis said Monday as he urged people to continue to stay at home as much as possible until the outbreak is brought under control. Before bars and restaurants were ordered closed March  16, the number of coronavirus patients was doubling about every two days, but the doubling time has now slowed to about five days, Polis said. The impact of the statewide stay-at-home order he issued last week will not be seen until mid-April, he said. Polis said people should get outside close to home but not treat the shutdown in normal business to slow the spread of the virus as a “vacation” to venture farther. He quoted a Bible verse from Corinthians on the importance of faith, hope and love in asking residents to keep themselves and others safe and also in checking on neighbors who might need help and staying in touch with friends and family remotely. 
  Hartford:  Gov. Ned Lamont said Tuesday that he’s considering narrowing the list of businesses considered essential to keep people home, predicting April will be a “horrible month” for coronavirus cases in Connecticut. Lamont said more needs to be done to persuade young people that social distancing is crucial to reducing the spread of the virus, noting the infection rate is expected to peak in the state over the coming weeks. “We’re definitely at a point where you’ve got to stay home, and probably we have to take a look at what is an essential worker and to continue to tighten that up in terms of any possible confusion,” Lamont said during an interview on WPLR FM. “I’m looking at more ways to keep people at home, at least for this 30-day period.” Lamont said he’s been hesitant to close the state’s large parks but worries when he sees large groups of young people congregating, such as playing basketball, and not taking social distancing seriously.
  Wilmington:  More than 500 members of the state’s most vulnerable population – those without homes and stable medical care – have been contacted and assessed by state and health officials in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. Since then, a Wilmington hotel  has stepped up and opened its door to house those considered most at risk for getting and spreading COVID-19 , the disease derived from this new coronavirus that is spreading rapidly throughout the state. It’s all part of an effort to bring medical and social services under one roof – in this case, at this downtown hotel. The state Department of Health and Social Services declined to name the hotel. Officials said caring for this population can also bring about stigma, and they did not want to draw added attention to the location.
  Washington:  Several inmates at the D.C. Department of Corrections have tested positive for the coronavirus,  WUSA-TV reports . The latest inmate to test positive is a 37-year-old man who has been in quarantine since Thursday. Two positive cases are a 37-year-old and 38-year-old, according to D.C. Department of Corrections. Both were housed in the Correctional Treatment Facility, D Building. They were moved to the quarantine unit Thursday as a precautionary measure after an individual from their unit tested positive for COVID-19. The other two inmates to test positive for the virus are a 44-year-old man – not housed in the same unit with the first positive case – and a 20-year-old man, who was confirmed to have the virus March  25, DOC officials said. 
  Fort Lauderdale:  The state’s congressional Democrats on Tuesday blasted Gov. Ron DeSantis’ refusal to issue a statewide stay-at-home order to combat the coronavirus outbreak, charging that his “lax” decision will result in thousands of unnecessary deaths, risks the health of doctors and nurses, and threatens to overwhelm hospitals. With Florida now having at least 6,300 infections, 76 deaths and 770 hospitalizations, the Democrats said the Republican governor must drop his county-by-county approach and follow other hard-hit states by closing all nonessential businesses and ordering people to stay home except for buying food or medicine, visiting a doctor or going to an essential job. “Governor, we need you to follow the science – it is reckless and irresponsible to put at risk the people of the State of Florida who you swore to protect,” Rep. Donna Shalala of Miami said during a conference call with reporters. DeSantis has said he hasn’t issued a statewide order because he believes his county-by-county approach works medically, and he doesn’t want to punish businesses and workers in small, rural counties that have no or few confirmed cases.
  Atlanta:  Confirmed infections and deaths from the coronavirus in the state continued to increase Monday, as traveling to Savannah on the coast and into neighboring Florida became more cumbersome, and one expert predicted Georgia’s daily toll will keep escalating until late April. The Georgia Department of Public Health reported Tuesday that confirmed cases of the new virus have topped 3,800 statewide. Roughly 1 in 4 of those infected has been hospitalized, and at least 100 people have died. Dougherty County in southwest Georgia had at least 18 deaths, the most of any Georgia county, and continued to have the state’s highest per capita infection rate. Of the 12 counties with the highest per capita rates, 10 were in southwest Georgia. Bill Mathis, the elected chairman of neighboring Lee County, urged people to minimize trips outside their homes. “When you go to the grocery store, please don’t take your family,” he said.
  Honolulu:  Gov. David Ige further tightened travel restrictions to limit the spread of the coronavirus Monday by ordering people moving between islands to adhere to a 14-day self-quarantine. The order, which takes effect at midnight Wednesday, won’t apply to essential workers like health care workers traveling to other islands. The order comes a week after Ige ordered people arriving from other states or overseas to follow the same two-week quarantine. He’s also ordered all residents to stay at home for the next month. Earlier, a University of Hawaii economist told lawmakers the coronavirus pandemic has plunged the state’s economy into a recession that’s unprecedented for people alive in Hawaii today. “We know Hawaii is already in a deep recession. That recession will surpass anything we’ve seen in our lifetimes,” Carl Bonham told members of a House committee on the economic and financial effects of the virus.
  Boise:  Gov. Brad Little and Secretary of State Lawerence Denney said Monday that the state primary will be held May  19 as planned, but it will be conducted by mail with no in-person voting due to the coronavirus. The Republican governor is urging all Idahoans eligible to vote to request an absentee ballot. “While the coronavirus situation may change how we practice our right to vote in this primary election, it is important to keep our election dates in place,” Little said in a statement. Officials said the change is necessary because there won’t be enough polling places or workers for people to vote in person. Denney, in a letter to Little on Friday, said officials at many of the facilities used for the 900 polling places told county clerks the facilities may not be available. Denney also said polling place workers have concerns for their health and the health of voters. He said his office’s website has been changed to allow voters to register and request an absentee ballot. 
  Chicago:  Mayor Lori Lightfoot said Tuesday that the city is renting nearly 300 hotel rooms for first responders working during the coronavirus outbreak and worried that returning home between shifts puts their family members at risk. Lightfoot said the city will foot the costs for first responders including Chicago’s police, firefighters or paramedics who want to use the downtown hotel rooms rather than returning to their own homes. She said the city is making arrangements for health care workers with the same concerns about spreading the virus to their families. Lightfoot again said Tuesday that the city expects to see the outbreak peak here in the coming weeks. “There’s no sugarcoating this,” she said. “The numbers are going to get worse before they get better.” Chicago previously reserved more than 2,000 downtown hotel rooms for people who needed a place to isolate or quarantine away from home as they recover from mild cases of COVID-19.
  Indianapolis:  Fourteen more people have died from coronavirus-related illnesses, increasing the state’s virus death toll to 49 as its confirmed cases surged past 2,000, health officials said Tuesday. Indiana’s number of confirmed cases of COVID-19, the disease caused by the virus, grew by 374, to 2,159, following corrections to the previous day’s total, the Indiana State Department of Health said. A week ago, the state had 365 confirmed cases and 12 reported deaths from COVID-19. Five of the state’s 14 new deaths involved Indianapolis residents, and four others were from Lake County. There was one death each reported from Elkhart, Decatur, Hancock, Ripley and Warren counties. Tuesday’s update on the pandemic in Indiana followed Monday’s announcement by state officials that Indiana hospitals have increased the state’s intensive care unit capacity by about one-third in the past few weeks in preparation for an expected surge in coronavirus-related illnesses.
  Des Moines:  A judge has set a hearing for Wednesday to consider whether to block an order by Gov. Kim Reynolds that temporarily halted abortions in the state. State district court Judge Andrew Chappell signed an order Monday setting the telephone hearing to consider arguments by abortion providers and the American Civil Liberties Union of Iowa. They say Reynolds is violating the state constitution by including abortion in an order she enacted Friday to halt all elective and non-emergency medical procedures. Reynolds will be represented by the Iowa attorney general’s office. Reynolds, a Republican, said the move was to preserve medical equipment during the coronavirus pandemic emergency and denied it was based on her opposition to abortion rights. ACLU of Iowa lawyer Rita Bettis Austen said in court filings that up to 30 women who were scheduled for abortion procedures this week could be forced to have babies against their will.
  Wichita:  A local official wants to temporarily close an abortion clinic to curb the spread of the coronavirus that has sickened residents and staff at another nursing home. Sedgwick County Commissioner Michael O’Donnell said Monday that he’ll ask the commission to strip abortion clinics from the list of “essential” businesses that can stay open during the pandemic, thus shuttering the Trust Women Wichita Clinic, The Wichita Eagle reports. Julie Burkhart, founder and CEO of the clinic, called the proposal “unethical” and “unconscionable.” The clinic replaced the practice of late-term abortion provider Dr. George Tiller, who was fatally shot by an anti-abortion activist in 2009. “This is nothing more than a political tool they are using in order to shut down abortion,” Burkhart said. O’Donnell presented the proposal even as federal judges temporarily blocked similar efforts in other states.
  Frankfort:  Gov. Andy Beshear signed legislation Monday offering relief to workers and employers suffering economic damage from the coronavirus pandemic. The bill was put on the fast track by lawmakers last week as the Bluegrass State deals with rising numbers of coronavirus cases and deaths linked to the illness. The Democratic governor thanked the Republican-led Legislature for its quick action. The legislation reinforces many of the emergency actions already taken by his administration, Beshear said. Businesses statewide have closed or scaled back operations. The virus-relief bill has several layers but includes putting relaxed access to unemployment insurance into law. It waives the seven-day waiting period for Kentucky residents to access jobless benefits. It also extends benefits to the self-employed and others normally ineligible for assistance. And it allows workers cut back to part-time status to draw a partial benefit.
  Baton Rouge:  State lawmakers returned to the state Capitol on Tuesday for a short introduction of last-minute bills, including emergency measures aimed at the coronavirus pandemic, as the House was rattled with news that one of its younger members was hospitalized with the COVID-19 disease. Rep. Ted James, a Baton Rouge Democrat who chairs the House criminal justice committee, announced late Monday that he was in the hospital with pneumonia stemming from the virus. The news was particularly jarring because James is only 37 years old. “I hope my constituents and the people of Louisiana look at my experience and understand that this virus does not know age, race, health or socioeconomic status,” James said in a statement. “I implore everyone to stay home, stay safe and save lives. I know God is in control, and I look forward to beating this and returning to work soon.”
  Scarborough:  The state now has more than 300 people testing positive for the new coronavirus – and two more deaths, the Maine Centers for Disease Control said Tuesday. Those two deaths linked to COVID-19, one each in York and Kennebec counties, bring the total to five in Maine, according to the Maine CDC. Nearly 60 people are hospitalized, the agency said. Meanwhile, Abbott Laboratories will begin production Wednesday of COVID-19 tests, making 50,000 of them daily at its manufacturing plant outside Portland, company officials said. The Scarborough plant expects to produce more than 1  million tests per month that can deliver positive results in as little as five minutes and negative results in 13 minutes, said Kimberly LaFleur, a company spokeswoman. Maine, which has experienced testing shortages, is “very interested” in the system, but more information is needed, said Dr. Nirav Shah, director of the Maine CDC. 
  Annapolis:  A public-private initiative will provide $4  million to a Johns Hopkins University-led team to study therapeutic uses of blood plasma recovered from COVID-19 patients, according to an announcement from Bloomberg Philanthropies, Gov. Larry Hogan and Johns Hopkins University. Arturo Casadevall, an infectious disease expert at Johns Hopkins, is leading the effort. In recent weeks, he has led a team from around the nation to create a network of hospitals and blood banks that can start collecting and processing the plasma from COVID-19 survivors. Researchers hope to use the technique to treat critically ill COVID-19 patients. They also hope to use it to boost the immune systems of health care providers and first responders. Currently, there are no proven drug therapies or effective vaccines for treating COVID-19. The funding consists of a $3  million gift from Bloomberg Philanthropies and $1  million from the state of Maryland, according to a news release from the governor’s office. 
  Boston:  The administrator of a veterans home where 11 residents died recently mismanaged an outbreak of the new coronavirus, Holyoke Mayor Alex Morse said Tuesday. The Democrat said the first deaths occurred last Wednesday, but officials at the Holyoke Soldiers Home failed to disclose the deaths until Sunday. Morse said he’d called Bennett Walsh, the facility’s then-superintendent, directly after receiving an anonymous complaint. “I was incredibly disappointed,” Morse said. “There was a clear lack of urgency, and we were repeatedly told that these were folks with underlying health conditions. That’s certainly not an excuse for not isolating the folks that did test positive.” The mayor also said he was concerned about the lack of urgency from state Secretary of Veterans’ Services Francisco Urena, who Morse said also joined in Sunday’s call at one point.
  Detroit:  Hundreds of new health care graduates from Michigan State University are available to respond to the coronavirus outbreak, the school said Tuesday. State officials have made a desperate plea for health professionals as the number of cases rises each day. MSU said the state has created a temporary license for nurses who are typically required to first take a national exam. Doctors from the colleges of Human Medicine and Osteopathic Medicine also can work ahead of their medical residencies, which start in July, MSU said. “Adding more than 350 medical professionals to the health care workforce at this critical juncture will make a substantive difference in combating this virus,” said Dr. Norman Beauchamp Jr., executive vice president for health sciences. The state’s medical executive, Dr. Joneigh Khaldun, said Michigan needs nurses and acute-care doctors.
  St. Paul:  Advocates for the homeless are taking steps to protect the vulnerable population from contracting the coronavirus, but they say it’s not easy given the busy shelters where people often sleep and eat in close proximity and share restrooms. Minnesota Coalition for the Homeless executive director Rhonda Otteson said many homeless have chronic health conditions, putting them at “grave risk” if they contract COVID-19. “In a time when we are supposed to be social distancing to protect our neighbors and so we don’t overwhelm the limited capacity of the health care system, we have thousands of people in Minnesota living in spaces that were not designed for social distancing,” Otteson said. Hennepin County is moving medically at-risk people from homeless shelters to hotels, Minnesota Public Radio News reports. Ramsey County is opening Mary Hall in St. Paul as a respite for homeless adults with coronavirus symptoms. In Rochester, Olmsted County and Catholic Charities of Southern Minnesota are using the Mayo Civic Center Exhibition Hall as a temporary day center and night shelter.
  Jackson:  Gov. Tate Reeves on Tuesday issued his first stay-at-home order to try to slow the spread of the new coronavirus, but it is only for one of the 82 counties. Reeves said Lauderdale County, which borders Alabama, has seen a recent rapid increase in positive tests for the highly contagious virus. His order for Lauderdale County began at 10  p.m. Tuesday and lasts for two weeks. Reeves and the state epidemiologist, Dr. Paul Byers, said a nursing home there is considered a hot spot for the virus. They would not release the name of the nursing home but said employees, residents, families and others who have been in contact with the home have been notified. Reeves said he could issue more stay-at-home orders for other parts of Mississippi if test results show other hot spots developing. “There are those who believe that government ought to take over and run everything,” said Reeves, a Republican. “There are those of us who are going to take a data-driven approach.” 
  Kansas City:  With confirmed coronavirus cases in the state now topping 1,000, civil rights organizations, doctors and others are calling for the release of as many pretrial detainees as possible during the pandemic. The Missouri Supreme Court on Monday made it clear that rules related to the release of detainees leave those decisions to local judges. Last week, a coalition of more than 30 organizations and medical professions urged the Supreme Court to order the release of county jail detainees awaiting trial for nonviolent crimes and those in high-risk categories based on their age or medical condition. Missouri’s two urban areas already have released dozens of inmates. The Missouri Sheriff’s Association said it opposed the “sweeping release of offenders,” citing a variety of concerns, including the safety of victims and the possibility that suspects could commit new crimes while out of jail.
  Helena:  The governor has asked tourists to stop coming to the state while residents are under a stay-at-home directive to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Gov. Steve Bullock’s directive asking people not to visit Montana for non-work-related purposes also told people to self-quarantine for 14 days if they are coming from another state or country. “While we love our visitors, we would ask that you not come visit while Montanans are watching out for one another by staying at home,” Gov. Steve Bullock said in a statement Monday, saying it is needed to protect the health care system, as well. In a governors’ call with President Donald Trump on Monday, Bullock said Montana does not have enough testing supplies to adequately identify and isolate people who are infected and test people who have been in contact with them. He also said Montana had put in supply orders several times only to have them be canceled because the federal government is requesting the same supplies.
  Lincoln:  The COVID-19 pandemic has forced cancellation of May graduation ceremonies at the state’s four University of Nebraska system campuses, officials said. The Lincoln campus intends to hold an online event, and the May graduates have been invited to attend August, December, May 2021 ceremonies or other future commencements. University of Nebraska at Omaha graduates will be recognized through an online streaming commencement May  8. The grads will be able to take part in a commencement ceremony at Baxter Arena in Omaha in December. The Kearney campus plans to combine commencements for spring and summer graduates July  31. The University of Nebraska Medical Center in Omaha plans to hold virtual ceremonies May  7 and 9. The grads will have chances to participate in the December ceremony or any future ceremony. 
  Las Vegas:  Homeless people in the city have been directed to sleep in rectangles painted on the pavement in a makeshift parking lot camp as a way to limit the spread of the coronavirus, a move stirring outrage among some on social media. Former Obama administration housing chief Julian Castro suggested in a post on Twitter that the city’s homeless should be temporarily placed in empty hotel rooms. The white-lined patches of pavement were created by officials in the city known for its hospitality after a homeless shelter closed when a man staying there tested positive for the coronavirus. City officials said they decided to temporarily place the homeless in a parking lot of a multi-use facility rather than inside buildings that include a stadium, a theater, exhibit space and meeting rooms because officials planned to reserve them for potential hospital overflow space if needed. City spokesman Jace Radke said Tuesday that the open-air shelter was an “emergency situation” and that the lot was chosen because the city already owned the property.
  Enfield:  The traditional egg hunts that take place around Easter won’t be held because of the COVID-19 outbreak, but some residents have organized a hunt that incorporates social distancing from now until the April  12 holiday. Residents in five New Hampshire towns are being encouraged to make eggs, said Kate Plumley Stewart, of Enfield. These eggs are not for the taking, though. Residents are encouraged to create their own eggs and leave them outside their home, on a front door or in a window where they can be viewed and enjoyed from the road for an “I Spy”-type of game. The hunt is being organized in Enfield, Canaan, Grafton, Dorchester and Orange. 
  Trenton:  The state’s death toll from the coronavirus approached 300 on Tuesday, Gov. Phil Murphy said, just a day after the tally reached about 200. The number of positive cases is near 19,000, up from about 16,000, while the death toll climbed from 198 to 267 overnight, Murphy said during a daily news conference. Among the dead were a 33-year-old firefighter from Passaic and a 30-year-old baseball coach from Cliffside Park. The death toll is a reminder that the best thing residents can do is to continue to avoid social interactions, Murphy said. “I cannot be any clearer in my call: Stay at home before this hits home. Please do your part to flatten this curve,” the Democrat said. The state also received more protective gear from the federal government, and more counties are opening testing centers, according to the governor.
  Santa Fe:  Local elections officials petitioned the state Supreme Court for permission to conduct the June  2 primary election by mail, asserting that the coronavirus pandemic makes it impossible to conduct traditional election-day balloting. Nearly all of the state’s 33 county clerks signed a petition that calls for mail-in ballots to be distributed to registered voters throughout the state. For voters who require assistance with mail-in or provisional ballots, the clerks suggested limited in-person help at service centers. “The 568 election-day polling places … should be ordered not to operate in the 2020 primary election,” the petition says. The request notes that there are no emergency alternatives outlined in state statute that would safeguard polling workers and voters and that a special session of the Legislature to change election procedures is impractical because of the contagion. 
  New York:  More than 300 New Yorkers died from the coronavirus in a 24-hour period, a somber-sounding Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Tuesday as temporary hospital beds were made available to help relieve the stress on city hospitals inundated with virus patients. City officials announced Tuesday that 250 more ambulances and 500 paramedics and EMTs are headed to New York to help manage record numbers of calls for assistance. Deaths from the coronavirus in the state had topped 1,500 by Tuesday, according to Cuomo. The outbreak hit close to home for the governor, who spoke of his brother and “best friend,” CNN anchor Chris Cuomo, testing positive for the disease. “Luckily we caught it early enough. But it’s my family; it’s your family; it’s all of our families,” the governor said. New York City’s Health Department also recorded the city’s first death of a person under 18 years old.
  Carrboro:  Restaurants and farmers in this town known for arts and cuisine are joining forces to offer residents safe and healthy dishes while also supporting food service jobs threatened by COVID-19. Carrboro United sprouted in the town of 20,000 when a retired retail CEO and a longtime restaurateur came up with selling prepared and raw food packages online to residents, who then line up in cars at a central location to receive their boxes while still practicing social distancing. Packages equivalent to about 1,000 meals were distributed at the first pickup March  21 in the town about 30 miles northwest of Raleigh. Carrboro United said 3,800 such meals were being sold Tuesday, one of three pickup days per week. “It’s very impressive, the community support,” said Justin Platt, a food hub worker. “I’m thanking them. The community is trying to pull together.” Platt was among 44 employees at Acme Food & Beverage laid off last month following a statewide order to close restaurants for dine-in services, leaving only eight workers employed. 
  Bismarck:  Several groups urged Gov. Doug Burgum on Monday to block evictions and foreclosures to protect those suffering economic hardship caused by COVID-19. The request from groups that include the North Dakota Farmers Union and the American Civil Liberties Union came as the state reported its second and third deaths from complications of the coronavirus and as the number of cases surpassed 100. Janna Farley, a spokeswoman for the ACLU’s North Dakota chapter, said the groups, which also include the union representing state employees and teachers, want the Republican governor to issue an order similar to one in neighboring Minnesota that forbid landlords to evict people right now. Burgum spokesman Mike Nowatzki said the governor was aware of the push by the groups but had not made a decision on whether to temporarily block evictions and foreclosures. “We’ll address it,” Nowatzki said.
  Columbus:  Gov. Mike DeWine ordered mandatory weekly online reporting of ventilator availability, and the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency ordered water systems to reconnect customers disconnected as of Jan.  1. DeWine mandated the reporting on ventilator manufacturing, distribution, retail supplies and overall availability in case the state needs to move supplies around quickly. The Columbus mayor, the local homeless board and the YMCA plan to open a shelter to house homeless people who have COVID-19 but don’t require hospitalization. Nearly 2,200 cases are confirmed in the state, with 55 deaths as of Tuesday and nearly 600 people hospitalized, officials reported. That doesn’t reflect all cases in Ohio because the state limits testing to those who are hospitalized and to health care workers. 
  Oklahoma City:  The state’s total coronavirus cases surpassed 500 on Tuesday, with 84 new confirmations and six more deaths, according to the Oklahoma State Department of Health. The department said there are at least 565 cases in 47 of the state’s 77 counties, up from 481 on Monday. The number of COVID-19 deaths rose from 17 to 23. Four deaths were men 65 or older, plus one man and one woman, both 50-64 years old. The increase came a day after University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center Chief of Infectious Diseases Dr. Douglas Drevets estimated the state has identified about 10% of all cases. “There are studies from China suggesting that they only identified 15% of all the cases … and that was using more widespread testing than we have here in Oklahoma,” Drevets said. “I am guessing that we are identifying 1 out of every 10.”
  Salem:  Facing an expected closure through the end of the academic year, schools across the state have been told to begin distance learning April  13. Some schools are already handing out smart tablets and Wi-Fi devices to students. Gov. Kate Brown closed schools through April  28, but because the coronavirus pandemic has not reached its peak in the United States, that closure is expected to be extended. In Crook County, a high-desert region in Central Oregon, the school district is launching distance learning Wednesday. Assistant Superintendent Joel Hoff said Google Classroom will be used for the vast majority of classes. In one fairly affluent Portland-area school district, an elementary school is handing out iPads to younger students and Chromebooks to students in the third grade and up, as well as Wi-Fi hot spots. The Lake Oswego School District already had an iPad and/or Chromebook for each student that they used in class. 
  Harrisburg:  Gov. Tom Wolf added seven more counties Tuesday to his order to stay at home as the new virus expanded its reach and the state reported another big jump in confirmed COVID-19 cases and deaths. Wolf told residents of Lebanon, Franklin, Somerset, Lawrence, Cameron, Crawford and Forest counties to stay home at least through April  30, bringing to 33 the number of counties under the governor’s order. Nearly 11  million Pennsylvania residents, or 85% of the state’s population, have now been instructed to remain in their homes, with exceptions that include working at a business that’s still open, going to the grocery store or pharmacy, visiting a doctor, caring for a relative or heading outside to exercise. One day after President Donald Trump declared a major disaster in Pennsylvania, the state’s emergency management agency said it would begin contacting potential applicants, which include state, county and municipal governments and eligible nonprofits. 
  Providence:  The state’s schoolchildren will continue distance learning through at least the end of April as the state grapples with the growing coronavirus pandemic, Gov. Gina Raimondo announced Monday. Although online attendance rates have been higher than anticipated since the state’s public schools moved to remote learning last month, more needs to be done, the Democrat said. To help, the state’s top four cellphone providers have agreed to provide free cellphone hot spot service until May  8, she said. In addition, internet provider Cox will provide two free months of internet service for eligible low-income families. “I am not throwing in the towel and giving up on 142,000 kids,” Raimondo said. 
  Columbia:  Gov. Henry McMaster has ordered the closure of nonessential businesses in the state, his latest in a stair-step escalation of measures aimed at quelling the new coronavirus outbreak. The order, announced by the governor during a news conference Tuesday, took effect Wednesday and applies to thousands of businesses across the state, from tattoo parlors and hair salons to spas, nightclubs, theaters and museums. Not included are grocery stores and pharmacies, as well as gas stations, banks and large-scale retailers like Walmart. “We must do everything we can to stop the spread, be as aggressive as we can be, using the facts, but at the same time, not going too far, destroying business and jobs that people are depending on,” McMaster said on why some businesses were being ordered to close and not others. The state’s two largest cities had enacted similar orders last week, but McMaster, a Republican, had previously shied away from issuing such a mandate for the entire state.
  Sioux Falls:  Mayors from the state’s largest cities told lawmakers Monday that Gov. Kristi Noem’s resistance to ordering a statewide business shutdown has left them struggling to take action to stop the spread of the coronavirus. Legislators convened through a conference call to consider a series of emergency bills, hearing from mayors on a measure that would allow cities and counties to declare a public health emergency and move quickly to shut down businesses. As the governor’s staff explained the bills, Noem’s strategy for the coronavirus crisis became more clear: Try to keep businesses open, and only step in if things get so bad that the state Secretary of Health needs to declare a public health emergency. Sioux Falls Mayor Paul TenHaken told legislators he has had mayors across the state reach out to him to ask what they should do. He said mayors have been “hamstrung” by the lack of action from Noem. Some cities have not waited for permission, instead closing bars, restaurants and retail stores.
  Nashville:  Gov. Bill Lee says “legal challenges” are preventing the state’s top health officials from releasing location information on where coronavirus deaths have occurred in the state. The Republican is facing increased pressure to release the county information as Tennessee’s death toll from the virus climbed to 23 as of Tuesday – which includes a former college president who was serving as a pastor in Memphis. Lee has stopped short of divulging specifics around those legal challenges, however, when pressed as to why his administration was refusing to release the information that is currently being distributed in many other states. Instead, Lee said his office was studying the situation and hinted the position may change in the near future. “There’s a unique and challenging legal issue around reporting deaths by county, but we want to get past that issue if at all possible,” Lee said during a Monday news briefing.
  Dallas:  A federal judge has blocked the city from enforcing an ordinance requiring private businesses to offer paid sick leave, but activists contend employees need those benefits more than ever as the coronavirus continues to spread. District Judge Sean Jordan on Monday granted a preliminary injunction, ruling that a Texas statute prevents cities from enacting their own paid sick leave orders. The ordinance, approved by the City Council in April 2019, went into effect that August but wasn’t set to be enforced with penalties until April  1. “Whether or not paid sick leave requirements should be imposed by government on private employers is an important public policy issue, made even more significant under the challenging circumstances faced by our nation at this moment,” Jordan wrote. The ordinance mandated that Dallas employers must grant one hour of paid sick leave for every 30 hours worked by a staffer. 
  Salt Lake City:  A state medical association has rescinded a recommendation it made last week on behalf of state health officials for doctors to treat coronavirus patients using malaria drugs that medical professionals across the country have cautioned against using until more testing is done. The about-face by the Utah Medical Association came after a group of infectious disease doctors pushed back over the weekend against the Friday guidance. The association said in the first email sent Friday that chloroquine and a similar drug, hydroxychloroquine, had shown “promising data for affecting the course of COVID-19” and that their recommended use was being made at the suggestion of the Utah Department of Health. The association also recommended combining them with zinc. The association reversed positions in a follow-up email Sunday in which it said the Utah Department of Health had withdrawn the previous guidance after “much collaborative discussion” and based on “a lack of convincing evidence regarding the efficacy and safety of off-label use of hydroxychloroquine.”
  Montpelier:  The state is making temporary changes to its election laws amid the coronavirus outbreak, Secretary of State Jim Condos said. Candidates will no longer have to gather petition signatures for the state’s primary elections in August and the general election in November, Condos said Monday in a statement. But candidates will still have to file financial disclosure statements, he said. “Eliminating the requirement for candidates to collect signatures for petitions is necessary in this time when we are sheltering at home, avoiding gatherings, and avoiding unnecessary contact with other people,” Elections Director Will Senning said. The state had 293 cases and another death from COVID-19, bringing the total number of deaths to 13, according to the Vermont Department of Health.
  Richmond:  Gov. Ralph Northam on Monday issued a statewide stay-at-home order along with a lecture for those who packed the state’s beaches last weekend or otherwise ignored calls to avoid mass gatherings. “You are being very, very selfish because you are putting all of us, especially our health care providers, at risk,” Northam, who is also a doctor, said at a news conference. “To date, this has been a suggestion to Virginians. Today, it’s an order.” Northam’s executive order tells the state’s approximately 8.5  million people they must stay home except for limited circumstances, such as traveling to or from work, seeking medical attention, obtaining goods and services, or engaging in outdoor activity. The order also adds restrictions to the state’s public beaches, closing them to sunbathing but permitting exercising and fishing. Those who violate the order could be subject to misdemeanor criminal penalties. 
  Seattle:  Public health officials and researchers said Monday that social distancing appears to be helping slow the spread of COVID-19 in the Seattle area, where many of the first U.S. deaths occurred, but Gov. Jay Inslee says the public still needs to be prepared for the state’s current two-week stay-at-home order to be extended. Dr. Jeff Duchin, the public health officer for Seattle and King County, said a new analysis by the Bellevue-based Institute of Disease Modeling provides a powerful indication that the region needs to double-down on the policies it’s already adopted. “What we’re doing now appears to be working,” Duchin said. “We need to continue this for weeks.” Inslee said that while no final decision has been made on extending the order, “it is very highly likely that there will be some further measures.”
  Williamson:  The only hospital in a southern West Virginia county is closing after the coronavirus crisis disrupted attempts to sell the business, news outlets report. Williamson Memorial Hospital in Mingo County announced plans Monday to close in three weeks. In a statement, hospital officials explained that they went into bankruptcy proceedings in February and obtained a loan to fund operations until the business could be sold. The idea was to stay open until a sale closed in early April. But all potential buyers were health care providers who are now focused on preparing their own facilities for waves of coronavirus patients, delaying any sale. U.S. Sen. Joe Manchin, D-W.Va., called it “unconscionable” that any hospital would close while the virus spreads. “I will continue to work with hospital leadership and state and local officials on next steps to ensure that Mingo County will not go without treatment during this terrible pandemic,” he said.
  Milwaukee:  The coronavirus has delivered a severe blow to dairy farmers who rely on selling milk to restaurants, schools and the hospitality industry. About one-third of Wisconsin dairy products, mainly cheese, are sold in the food service trade. “The coronavirus outbreak has caused milk prices to drop down to unprofitable levels this spring, right when we need money to buy supplies for the spring planting season,” said dairy farmer John Rettler of Neosho, president of FarmFirst Dairy Cooperative in Madison. Dairy farmers are concerned about processing plants shuttering or slashing production because their product is perishable. Baraboo cooperative Foremost Farms recently asked its members in a letter to brace for scenarios that may include dumping milk or scaling down the amount they produce, noting “the extreme nature of the coronavirus situation and the impact on the economy.”
  Cheyenne:  The state has no plans for a stay-at-home order to contain the coronavirus, but any order for the entire state would contain no exemptions, Gov. Mark Gordon said Monday. Gordon made the remarks as confirmed cases of the COVID-19 virus in Wyoming approached 100 and two days after the Jackson Town Council approved a stay-at-home order for the resort town of 10,000 near Yellowstone and Grand Teton national parks. The local order – the first for any area within Wyoming since the pandemic began – contains a number exemptions including for domestic violence victims seeking safe haven, the Jackson Hole News & Guide reports. “If we’re going to issue a shelter in place or stay at home order, it will not have multiple exemptions. It will be a true stay-at-home order,” Gordon said at a news conference.
  From USA TODAY Network and wire reports 
 