[This briefing has ended. For the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak in the New York area, read  Wednesday’s live coverage .] 
  Governor Andrew M. Cuomo met with  President Trump  at the White House on Tuesday, describing the conversation afterward as a “productive” step toward helping New York increase its ability to test for the coronavirus and, eventually, to restart its economy. 
  The governor said the two men, whose relations during the virus outbreak have swung from antagonistic to conciliatory and back, discussed the role the federal government could play in increasing testing capacity, and whether more stimulus money could be made available to New York and other financially battered states. 
  Mr. Trump was supportive on both fronts, Mr. Cuomo said. 
  “The meeting went well and I think it was productive,” the governor said during a telephone interview on MSNBC. “The big issue was testing.” 
  At a news conference later, Mr. Cuomo  said the president had committed to helping New York State double its testing capacity to 40,000 tests a day , a total that would include diagnostic and antibody tests. He did not specify when the state would achieve that goal.
  “It will take several weeks at best,” Mr. Cuomo said. “This is an enormous undertaking.”
  The governor noted that it had taken the state about a month to get to where it can do 20,000 tests day, which he called the “current system at maximum.” He and other governors have said that increasing testing capacity was critical to lifting restrictions that have brought many aspects of life to a halt.
  A major obstacle to doing more tests, Mr. Cuomo has said, is the availability of the reactive chemicals in test kits known as reagents. 
  Mr. Cuomo said on Tuesday that Mr. Trump had agreed to a division of responsibility on testing: The federal government would help states get the materials they needed by getting directly involved in international supply chains, while states handle logistics like where tests would be conducted and how many would be needed. 
  “It ends the whole back-and-forth and the finger-pointing in a very fair and smart way,” Mr. Cuomo said. “It’s a smart resolution.”
  Mr. Trump, speaking at a White House briefing after the two men met, echoed Mr. Cuomo’s sentiments. 
  “We had a great talk on testing,” the president said. “We have an agreement, we have an understanding on testing.” Mr. Trump also signaled a willingness to seek aid for states. “I agree with him on that,” he said of the governor, “and I think most Republicans agree too, and Democrats.”
  State and federal authorities have clashed over who should be responsible for testing. Mr. Cuomo said on Sunday that test-kit manufacturers had told him they were unable to supply more reagents to local labs in New York, in part because the federal government was telling them which states should get the chemicals.
  Mr. Cuomo and Mr. Trump have also tussled in recent weeks over New York’s need for ventilators, stimulus aid, whether governors have the authority to reopen state economies and even  whether Mr. Cuomo had shown sufficient gratitude  for the federal aid New York has gotten. 
  One form the federal help took was the U.S.N.S. Comfort, a Navy hospital ship that arrived in Manhattan to great fanfare but has not been heavily used. 
  Noting that New York City appeared to have passed the outbreak’s apex, Mr. Cuomo said that he and Mr. Trump had discussed whether the ship might do more good elsewhere at this point.
  “We all agreed that at this current rate, we don’t need the Comfort anymore,” he said. “Whoever needs it, they should have it.”
  The daily number of coronavirus deaths in New York increased very slightly, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said on Tuesday, with 481 people dying of the virus a day after 478 deaths were reported. There have now been 14,828 virus-related deaths in the state.
  Other measures of the virus’s spread in the state were also flat or falling, Mr. Cuomo said.
  The number of hospitalized patients fell for the eighth day in a row, and the number who were newly admitted was the lowest in more than three weeks. 
  The number of intubated virus patients — the most seriously ill people — fell by 127, the steepest one-day drop to date, and is now below 4,000.
  Mr. Cuomo said at his morning briefing, which he delivered in Buffalo on his way to Washington to meet with President Trump, that New York would allow elective treatments and surgeries to resume in some areas of the state.
  “In those parts of the state and in those hospitals where the hospitals are laying off people because they’re so quiet, and they have the capacity, and capacity for the virus is not an issue, we are going to allow elective outpatient treatment,” he said.
  Hospitals in and around New York City and in some of the counties along the Hudson River up to Albany will still be closed to elective surgery, as will hospitals in the Buffalo area, Mr. Cuomo said.
  Governor Philip D. Murphy of New Jersey said on Tuesday that the state had recorded 379 new virus-related deaths since the day before, a sharp one-day increase that pushed the overall toll to 4,753.
  “These are not numbers,” Mr. Murphy said. “These are human beings.”
  There were 3,643 new confirmed virus cases reported on Tuesday, slightly fewer than were reported on Monday. The total number of cases in New Jersey was 92,387.
  Those who died in recent days included Darlene Mae Andes, a 54-year-old employee of     Mercer County’s public health division; Darell Johnson, a 43-year-old father of four who worked in the guidance department at Morristown High School; and Carole Wolf, 73-year-old nurse’s aide whose four sons are Newark firefighters.
  Mr. Murphy cited the three deaths as he called on residents to continue practicing isolation measures that have halted many activities.
  “I know a lot of folks don’t want to hear that or see that but we have to,” he said. 
  A  Monmouth University poll released on Tuesday found  that most state residents favor the strict measures and give Mr. Murphy high marks for the job he is doing amid the outbreak.
  The survey of 704 residents found that 71 percent approved of Mr. Murphy’s performance,  a 30 point jump since September .
  The poll, which was conducted from April 16 to April 19, found that 64 percent of respondents believed the measures taken by the state to slow the spread of the virus have been appropriate. Only 11 percent of respondents said they had gone too far.
  Even as they reported the single-day high in deaths, state officials expressed optimism on Tuesday about a decrease in the number of patients on ventilators.
  Judith Persichilli, the state health commissioner, said there were 1,930 people in critical condition intensive care, with 78 percent of them on ventilators.
  “We’ve been as high as 97 percent just a week ago,” she said. 
  
  The coronavirus is the official cause of death for 9,562 people in New York City, according to  figures released  by the city’s health department on Tuesday.
  It is considered the “probable” cause of death for another 4,865 people who died without being tested for the virus, according to the newly released figures.
  But public health experts say there are many more deaths that  may be indirectly attributable  to the virus: those of people who died because they could not get adequate health care from a system overwhelmed by virus patients. 
  The number of these collateral deaths could be as high as 4,000, according to an analysis by The New York Times.
  The  analysis, by the data reporters Jin Wu and Allison McCann , compared the number of people who died in New York City from March 11 to April 18 with the number who would normally be expected to die during such a span. 
  People died in New York City during that time at about four times the normal rate, the analysis found.
  The number of these “excess deaths” — 17,200 — is about 4,000 more than the 13,240 confirmed or probable virus-related deaths the city reported as of April 18.
  The Times analysis, based on a review of mortality data in 11 countries, found that at least 25,000 more people worldwide have died in the past month of the pandemic than the official death counts show.
  New York election officials are planning a vote on Wednesday about whether to cancel the state’s Democratic presidential primary. The move would probably anger supporters of Senator Bernie Sanders, but it could save money and reduce the risk of spreading the coronavirus.
  The chairman of the state Democratic Party, Jay Jacobs, said he was pushing to cancel the presidential voting, while still holding primaries for congressional, state legislative and local offices. An estimated 20 of New York’s 62 counties would not need to hold elections if the presidential primary were canceled. 
  “The more we can do to reduce the risk factor of running the primary, the smarter I think that it is,” Mr. Jacobs said.
  The primary is scheduled for June 23, but officials believe voting in the presidential race is essentially unnecessary given  Mr. Sanders’s decision to halt his campaign .
  A move by the state Board of Elections to scrap the presidential primary would be the latest development in a shifting national electoral landscape in which  16 states  have postponed their primaries and many have taken measures to encourage voting by mail.
  Despite his decision to concede to former Vice President  Joseph R. Biden Jr. , Mr. Sanders had expressed a desire to remain on ballots and collect delegates to increase his influence over the party platform.
  New York law provides that candidates should be removed from ballots if they terminate their campaigns. 
  “Obviously the intent of the Legislature was not to have a primary election where there is no real contest,” said Douglas A. Kellner, a Democrat and co-chairman of the elections board who supports canceling the contest.
  The decision rests with Mr. Kellner and the other Democrat on the board, Andrew J. Spano, a former Westchester County executive, who said he had not decided how he would vote.
  When police officers arrived at a closed commercial building in Manhattan around 4:20 p.m. Monday, there was a sign that the strict social-distancing rules enacted to slow the coronavirus’s spread were not being followed: Marijuana smoke was coming from the building.
  Officers broke up an illegal gathering of about 40 people smoking marijuana at 20 West 23rd Street, issuing 38 summonses for trespassing and five for marijuana possession, Lt. Thomas Antonetti said. 
  The raid was carried out by officers who are among 700 drawn from other duties several weeks ago to enforce social-distancing rules that call for New Yorkers to keep six feet apart from one another. Most people have abided by the guidelines, the police have said.
  The significance of the date and time of the episode did not escape the officers, the police said. The number 420 has long been associated with marijuana, and for many people, April 20 is a day devoted to smoking and celebrating cannabis.
  About half of New York City residents say that nonessential businesses should remain closed into June, according to  a survey released on Monday  by the CUNY Graduate School of Public Health and Health Policy.
  The poll, conducted over the weekend, found that 51 percent of New Yorkers want nonessential businesses to reopen by the end of April or May, with the other 49 percent preferring that to wait until after June 1.
  Mr. de Blasio, Mr. Cuomo and other leaders have all warned that if New York rushes to reopen, the outbreak, which has been leveling off in recent days, could spike again.
  “We’ve got to make sure we get this right once and for all,” the mayor said in an interview on CNN Tuesday. “If we jump the gun, we’re going to regret it.”
  Although New York City now has enough ventilators to treat all of the virus patients who need them, officials do not want to be caught short if there is another spike in cases.
  New York has reached a deal with a local company that is making a basic ventilator to  buy 3,000 of the devices for $10 million . 
  Mr. de Blasio said on Tuesday morning that the machines, known as bridge ventilators, will be part of a strategic reserve of medical supplies that the city plans to stockpile in case of future pandemics.
  The mayor also said at his morning briefing that five testing sites had opened in hard-hit areas of the city and that five more would open next week.    The sites were on track to test more than 3,600 New Yorkers for the virus this week, he said.
  Finally, Mr. de Blasio announced that once it was safe to do so, the city would hold a parade to honor its health care workers. 
  “We will honor those who saved us,” he said.
 