Deborah Birx, one of the administration’s top officials responsible for fighting the coronavirus,  acknowledged on Sunday  that we have a much worse situation than we did in the spring: “We are in a new phase,” she  said . “What we are seeing today is different from March and April. It is extraordinarily widespread. It’s into the rural as equal urban areas.” 
  The good news, according to Birx, is that the administration has already  reset its response ! Don’t worry if you have noticed nothing new.
  New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo (D), whose state shut down for weeks and instituted a meticulously designed, slow reopening,  responded  at his Monday news briefing:
  Cuomo suggested that if we really want a reset, it is President Trump who must get the ball rolling. “It was a mistake to downplay covid,” the governor  said . “It was a mistake to say, ‘It’s just the flu.’ It was a mistake to say, ‘It’s gone by Easter.’ It was a mistake to say, ‘It’s going to magically disappear when it gets warm.’ It was a mistake to say, ‘I see the light at the end of the tunnel.’ It was a mistake to say, ‘Yes, we’re going to do testing, but I don’t think we need it.’ Those were all mistakes.” 
  Cuomo is right that not only Americans but also governors who listened to Trump wound up failing to take the pandemic seriously. He went on:
  Former vice president Joe Biden might want to repeat that just about verbatim in his acceptance speech later this month. If Trump has the nerve to show up for the debates, Biden might use it there and might want to add just a few points.
  First, House, Senate and state Republicans share a good deal of the blame. They knew for months Trump’s aversion to mask-wearing was a dangerous canard. It was not until recently that they changed their tune. Republican governors bragged about their superior approach to the pandemic; they should apologize profusely for their arrogance. As  I wrote in May , “If premature, rash and uninformed decision-making leads to unnecessary deaths, governors, candidly, will have blood on their hands. And the country will have a catastrophe in the making.” They do, and we do.
  Second, right-wing media and pundits who remained silent — or worse, followed Trump’s lead — have blood on their hands as well. They misled countless Americans, helped turn masks into an issue of tribal identity and thereby contributed to the loss of life and the economic disaster. In particular, those who cheered for a quick reopening and minimized the risk to human life share in the governors’ blame. They are  not pro-life ; they put dollars ahead of lives and sacrificed both. Have none of them the decency to apologize for the widespread harm they have done?
  Third, we let off far too easily Vice President Pence and White House staffers including Hogan Gidley, Peter Navarro, Larry Kudlow, Kayleigh McEnany and a slew of others. They chose to stay in the administration and lie to the American people. They chose to enable a president whose conduct (from sneering at masks to holding a  rally in Tulsa ) endangered Americans. They will have to live with the consequences of their behavior.
  It is absolutely right to put the blame squarely on Trump. But it would be a mistake to stop there. In the reckoning that will come once this is over, all those who stood in the way of appropriate health measures should be held accountable. Rarely have so many people been endangered for so little gain.
  Read more: 
  Paul Waldman: The wheels are coming off Trump’s spin machine 
  Jennifer Rubin: The media still hasn’t learned to corner Trump’s lackeys 
  Karen Tumulty: Trump promised a health-care plan in two weeks. It’s been two weeks. 
  James Downie: The GOP’s stimulus disaster starts with the president 
  Jennifer Rubin: At least we can dump the pretense that the GOP is the ‘pro-life’ party 
 