Good morning, NBC News readers.
  The Democrats presented their opening arguments in the Senate impeachment trial, three Chinese cities are now on lockdown as coronavirus fears grow, and Eli Manning bows out.
  Here's what we're watching this Thursday morning.
  Opening arguments began in President Donald Trump's Senate impeachment trial on Wednesday, with Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif., telling senators they need to remove Trump from office because he's shown he's ready and willing to cheat in the 2020 election.
  "The president's misconduct cannot be decided at the ballot box because we cannot be assured the vote will be fairly won," Schiff told the Senate.
  He called Trump's efforts to get a foreign government to announce an investigation into his political rival "a gross abuse of power" that requires the Senate to act.
  Millions of Chinese had to cancel travel plans and hunker down in their homes to avoid exposure to a new, mysterious coronavirus Thursday as   to curb the spread of the deadly virus that has already claimed 17 lives.
  Health officials in China said that as of Wednesday more than 570 cases of the coronavirus have been confirmed across China.
  Officials at the World Health Organization (WHO) are expected to hold a press conference on Thursday to announce whether the outbreak can be classed as a global emergency.
  New cases have also been popping up outside the country’s borders, including two new cases in neighboring Hong Kong and  
  Many Chinese were stocking up on face masks and avoiding crowded places like cinemas and shopping centers.
  “I couldn't find any mask on the market for sale. I dare not go outside," said college student Du Sijia, 21, from Xiamen on China’s southeast coast.
  Two U.N. experts have   into an accusation that Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, the world's richest man, had his phoned hacked after receiving a WhatsApp message from Saudi Arabia's crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman.
  In a statement  , David Kaye, the U.N. special rapporteur on freedom of opinion and expression, and Agnes Callamard, the U.N.'s special rapporteur on extrajudicial executions, wrote that there is a "reasonable belief" that the accusation has merit.
  "The information we have received suggests the possible involvement of the Crown Prince in surveillance of Mr. Bezos, in an effort to influence, if not silence, The Washington Post's reporting on Saudi Arabia," the pair said in a joint statement, calling for further investigation.
  
  Trump impeachment defense lawyers Ken Starr and Alan Dershowitz share a disturbing problem,  .
  Crunched for time? Here's   for days when you only have 10 minutes to workout.
  Looking to bring some green inside? Here are the   (that won't die on you).
  
  — Sara Nelson, president of the Flight Attendants-CWA, on the DOT's proposed  .
  Annmarie Small came to America from Jamaica with her young son 18 years ago, dreaming of a better life.
  When she was hired as a teacher at the Cornerstone Learning Community in Tallahassee, Florida, she found not just a good job, but a community that inspired her to become an American citizen.
  "If I am to be teaching my students about democracy, I think I need to lead by example," she said.
  When she took the oath of citizenship last week, her 4th grade students, past and present  .
  Thanks for reading the Morning Rundown.
  If you have any comments — likes, dislikes — drop me an email at: petra@nbcuni.com
  If you'd like to receive this newsletter in your inbox Monday to Friday, .
  Thanks, Petra
  Petra Cahill is a senior editor and writer for NBC News Digital. She writes NBC News' Morning Rundown newsletter. 
 