We have now entered the stage when President Trump — always the last to figure out things that involve facts — at Tuesday’s coronavirus response briefing announced that  covid-19  is not the flu. It is “vicious,” he has discovered. Yeah, only dolts would have thought that you could  compare this virus to the ordinary flu , right?
  Trump warned that the next two weeks will be “very, very painful.” (Why two weeks? Won’t deaths continue as the virus rolls through one metropolitan area after another?) Certainly, only an uninformed fabulist would think everything would be  better by Easter :
  Trump used to say  no one   could have predicted  the coronavirus. Now, the right-wing talking point is that impeachment, which ended the at beginning of February, kept him too distracted. So it was knowable, but Trump did not know it?
  That does not match Trump’s earlier statements and numerous media accounts that senior advisers warned of the impending threat. The Post reports that fails to “take into account the president’s  own words and actions  related to the coronavirus.”  Recall :
  Moreover, Trump had  plenty of time  to tweet, play golf and hold rallies throughout January and February.
  But, as he so often does, Trump blew up the spin from his own allies. He declared on Tuesday, "I don’t think I would have done any better if I had not been impeached.” He added: “I don’t think I would have acted any differently, or I don’t think I would have acted any faster.” All that shilling for Trump did not survive the day.
  Try as he might to now prepare the country and figure out an excuse for massive casualties potentially on a scale not seen since World War II, Trump’s own statements and failure to take action cannot be entirely erased from memory. He would like us to think “some people” just thought we could “ride this out,” but not him! Well, he actually was the one who told us it would all disappear one day. Trump would like us to think that 100,000 to 240,000 (the range of the administration’s own projected casualties) would be a stunning achievement for him because doing nothing would have resulted in many more deaths.
  This line of reasoning is both misleading (had he acted as he should we might have kept casualties to a much lower level, as South Korea did) and morally obnoxious. It will be of no comfort to the widows and orphans when the president says there could have been more widows and orphans.
  One reason the president freaks out whenever a reporter quotes Trump back to Trump is that the record is littered with statements from him (and his right-wing sycophants) downplaying the danger of covid-19 and characterizing the pandemic as a figment of the anti-Trump media’s imagination. The gap between Trump’s words just a week or so ago and the horrible reality about to confront the country is unspinnable.
  His resistance to a nationwide stay-at-home order and unsupportable arguments that as many people would  die from suicide  in the case of enforced isolation as the coronavirus look like the product of denial and willful ignorance.
  The problem for Trump continues even now. With every utterance —  denying a shortage of tests , questioning the need for ventilators — he creates a new string of embarrassing quotes that also will clash with reality. The bottom line: Nothing can excuse the incompetence and ignorance that will make the death toll higher than that of other countries whose leaders acted more swiftly.
  Read more :
  George T. Conway III: Impeachment didn’t distract from coronavirus preparations. Trump did. 
  Megan McArdle: Covid-19 is going to do to businesses what it has done to people 
  The Post’s View: Let health workers have the medical gear. But we should all start covering our faces. 
  David Von Drehle: Beyond the bad coronavirus numbers lie the good ones. They’re every bit as powerful. 
 