Ben Kamisar
  WASHINGTON — Outside groups linked to Senate Democratic leadership are upping the ante in the race for the Senate majority, injecting another $10.3 million into key states.
  The moves from Senate Majority PAC and an affiliated non-profit, Duty and Honor, first reported by NBC News, represent an increased investment in ad spending across five states: North Carolina, Maine, Iowa, Montana and Georgia. And they come after the top GOP-aligned Senate super PAC, Senate Leadership Fund,  announced last week  it would start running ads in August too.  
  The nonprofit Duty and Honor is adding $3 million in TV spending to Maine, $1.5 million in North Carolina, $1.7 million in Montana and $1.4 million in Georgia. 
  Senate Majority PAC is adding $2 million in North Carolina, as well as $500,000 in Iowa and $200,000 in Maine. 
  All of the spending augments existing ad buys through August. 
  "Less than 90 days until Election Day and momentum and grassroots energy are on the side of Democratic candidates who have built strong campaigns across our offensive battlefield,” J.B. Poersch, Senate Majority PAC's president, said in a statement.
  “Our latest investment will keep Senate Republicans on their heels as they are forced to defend their weak incumbents who are trailing in fundraising and in public polling."
  The bulk of the outside group's ad spending has  already been earmarked for the fall  — in March, SMP announced plans to spend almost $70 million in TV ads in North Carolina, Arizona, Iowa, Maine and Colorado, with other spending planned by its allies. 
  But Democratic effort, which also includes the allied Majority Forward, has also been spending in primaries and  over the summer  as it looks to soften up Republican incumbents ahead of the fall. 
  Democrats are bullish on their chances in the fall because the majority of competitive races are in states where Republicans are currently in office. 
  But Republicans have been shoring up their resources this summer too, as Senate Leadership Fund, the GOP group, launched  a new, $21.3 million August TV and radio campaign  — $6.6 million in Georiga, $6.1 million in Montana, $4.1 million in Iowa, $2.6 million in North Carolina, and $1.9 million in Arizona. 
  SLF had already announced plans to spend $90 million in ads starting after Labor Day.
 