It's been a couple of months since the White House launched its first task force related to the coronavirus, and its work is not without controversy. NBC News  reported  over the weekend on the group "favoring some of the nation's largest corporations," while operating "almost entirely in the dark" with "virtually no accountability."
  That official White House panel's work is accompanied by a " shadow " coronavirus task force led by Jared Kushner, Donald Trump's young son-in-law, which is reportedly  generating  "confusion among many officials involved in the response" to the pandemic.
  There's also, of course, a "doctors' group" at the White House, which the  Washington Post   described  as "a previously unreported offshoot of the original task force," which "huddles daily to discuss medical and public health issues."
  And in case this weren't quite enough, the president has  announced  that he's also creating an "opening-our-country" task force, poised to begin its work this week.  Politico   reported :
  Though there was some reporting last week about Trump creating a panel focused specifically on the economy, he added in  comments  to reporters on Friday, "This is beyond economic. This is really, I call it the 'opening our country task force' or 'opening our country council' so we don't get it confused with [Vice President Mike Pence's] task force, which has done so great. And we're going to have the great business leaders, great doctors, we're going to have a great group of people."
  By some  accounts , Ivanka Trump is likely to be included as a member of this new panel, though the formal announcement isn't expected until tomorrow.
  If members of this latest task force are going to tell the president that "opening our country" without extensive testing and everything associated with it  is folly , then perhaps it will serve a valuable purpose. Then again, Trump shouldn't necessarily need a panel to tell him what he should already know. Either way, we probably shouldn't get our hopes up: he's unlikely to choose panelists who might tell him what he doesn't want to hear.
  All of which leads to an awkward question: are all of these White House task forces necessary? Especially when there's  still no underlying plan  that the task forces' members have been directed to implement?
  To be sure, the idea of organizing a group of qualified people to tackle important tasks during a crisis has appeal, but when there are multiple groups acting simultaneously to address similar priorities, the result, as a  Washington Post   report  put it yesterday, is "a bureaucratic nesting doll of groups with frequently competing aims and agendas."
  Americans need a better and more competent federal response to the crisis. There's no reason to think a fourth task force will make that happen.
 