Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox.  Sign up here 
  The  Democrats  and the  mainstream media  will never give  President Trump  the benefit of the doubt, especially in matters related to the  coronavirus pandemic , because of their innate hatred for him and his administration,  Donald Trump Jr.  said Tuesday.
  Appearing on  "The Kilmeade Show"  with host Brian Kilmeade, Trump Jr. said that the media's disrespect for the president at  Monday's daily news briefing  was par for the course.
  "You don't get used to it, per se. But, it's certainly frustrating enough that, as you know, I wrote a book about it," he remarked. "It's sad when you see that sort of thing."
  "Now, I know my father's a fighter, so he's going to push back. And, frankly, I don't think anyone's taken, sort of, the incoming that they have. But, you know, whenever something appears to be going even moderately well for him, they have to try to step in on that," he continued.
  CLICK HERE FOR FULL CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE 
  For around the first 40 minutes of testy coverage – during which some networks like MSNBC and CNN dipped out – President Trump and  White House  reporters sparred after he aired a video montage of the media's initial takes on the  outbreak , featuring clips from ABC News, NBC News and CBS News journalists and commentators expressing more concern about the common flu than the disease that was plaguing  China  at the time.
  The video presentation boasted the "decisive action" the president took with a timeline featuring his  founding of the coronavirus task force , the  travel restrictions on China , and Trump's call to  "accelerate" development for a vaccine for the virus  in early March — all moves which have been  called into question by journalists .
  "We're getting fake news and I would like to have it corrected," Trump added, later saying, "I don't mind being criticized, but not when they're wrong."
  The president also claimed – despite  constitutional  limitations – that  he has "total" authority to decide  when and how to reopen the  economy  after weeks of  precautionary health and safety measures  were put in place to help fight in the battle against the  highly infectious disease .
  “When somebody is president of the United States, the authority is total,” he stated. “The governors know that.”
  The president previously  aimed to reopen America's economy on Easter Sunday  but pivoted after  listening to projections from scientists . The economy was once arguably the president's largest  2020 campaign  issue, but coronavirus has  changed the game .
  The president's son said he believes his father has gotten ahead of the  virus , but that the "new push" for the media is "revisionist history" in their favor. Trump Jr. pointed at  NAID Director Dr. Anthony Fauci's   visibly frustrated reaction to a hypothetical question  about mitigation.
  "Yeah, sure, if you started imaginary mitigation for a problem that no one knew existed and no one believed existed and all of the clips show that including Fauci himself, who at February 28 was saying, 'No, no, no we don't think this is a big deal,'  Dr. Birx  saying, 'No, we thought it was going to be like SARS' — you know,  World Health Organization , the media, everyone..." Trump told Kilmeade.
  "But, now that they realize, frankly, the No. 1 thing that he could have done I guess even according to  Maggie Haberman of The New York Times  was shutting down travel from Wuhan."
  "Now, he did that [at] the end of January and  Joe Biden , the Democrats, and everyone in the mainstream media rushed to call him, you know, racist and xenophobic for doing that," he noted. "Well, it turns out that was the No. 1 thing."
  "So, you know, I think for him it's frustrating. He just wants to get this solved for the American people. He wants to get the economy going again and get that started. You have to do so safely and intelligently," Trump explained.
  CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP 
  "He's in a tough position because they will never give him any benefit of the doubt," he asserted.
  "It's insane at this point. That's sort of the lens by which we've seen this stuff go in now for four years," Trump concluded. "I just think it's becoming more apparent to the American public who probably and understandably could never imagine how bad it really is and how much they truly hate Trump and are really hoping for him to fail at this thing."
  Fox News' Joseph A. Wulfsohn contributed to this report. 
 