WASHINGTON – Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said Monday that the U.S. handle on the coronavirus outbreak is “really not good” and that action is needed to curb the spread.
  In  an interview  via Facebook Live, the nation's top infectious disease expert said, "We are still knee-deep in the first wave of this. And I would say, this would not be considered a wave. It was a surge, or a resurgence of infections superimposed upon a baseline."
  New cases in the USA have reached record highs, climbing to about 50,000 a day. Nearly 3 million Americans have contracted the virus, and more than 130,000 have died, according to data from  John Hopkins University .
  Fauci, speaking online with the National Institutes of Health, linked the surge in part to cities and states that may have reopened too quickly. 
  “A series of circumstances associated with various states and cities trying to open up in the sense of getting back to some form of normality has led to a situation where we now have record-breaking cases,” Fauci said in the chat with NIH Director Francis Collins. 
  Reopening America: At least 21 states pause reopening or take new steps to limit the spread of COVID-19 
  According to  John Hopkins University,  at least 32 states report higher rates of new cases this week compared with prior periods.
  "The European Union as an entity, it went up and then came down to baseline," Fauci said. "Now they're having little blips, as you might expect, as they try to reopen. We went up, never came down to baseline, and now it's surging back up. So it's a serious situation that we have to address immediately."
  Fauci warned Congress last week that  new coronavirus infections could increase to 100,000 a day  if the nation doesn’t get its surge of cases under control.
  The White House Coronavirus Task Force  has all but halted public briefings,  and President Donald Trump's administration has offered  conflicting messaging  on everything from the existence of the surge to how individuals should respond. 
  Trump  claimed  during his Fourth of July remarks that 99% of coronavirus cases are "totally harmless."
 