Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox.   Sign up here. 
  America needs  coronavirus  testing, tracing, and isolation for  the plan to reopen  the nation's  economy  to really work, Fox News medical contributor  Dr. Marc Siegel  said Friday.
  Appearing on  "Fox & Friends"  with hosts Steve Doocy, Ainsley Earhardt, and Brian Kilmeade, Siegel warned that while the country still needs to be cautious and smart about the way it operates going forward, rapid testing is still paramount for a return to some sense of normalcy.
  CLICK HERE FOR COMPLETE CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE 
  During the  White House Coronavirus Task Force  briefing Thursday night,  PresidentTrump   unveiled a set of guidelines  titled "Opening up America Again" as he declared that the U.S. is moving on to its next stage in the fight against the  virus . He also announced  a bipartisan council of lawmakers  dedicated to restarting the economy.
  "We can begin the next front in our war, which we are calling 'Opening Up America Again,'" he told reporters. "To preserve the  health  of Americans, we must preserve the health of our economy."
  "We are not opening all at once, but one careful step at a time," Trump said, adding that the guidelines were "based on hard verifiable data."
  "Some states will be able to open up sooner than others," he added.
  Later Thursday night,  NAID Director Dr. Anthony Fauci   told "The Ingraham Angle" host Laura Ingraham  that while America will not completely resume normal life without a  vaccine , the country could return to "a significant degree of normality" before then.
  "[The White House plan] is a gradual process [that] takes into account that we have a heterogeneous dynamic of outbreaks throughout the country," he said. " California  is really different than  New Orleans . It is really different than  New York  or  Detroit  ... places like  Arkansas  and  New Mexico  are very different. So what this plan does [is], it creates a baseline of a starting point, which we call the gating, where you have to have a certain degree of indication that the outbreak is decreasing over a period of time."
  "Before Phase 1, it's gauging which is -- they look to see if 14 days have gone by and you are not showing any surge up in cases," Dr. Siegel explained. "We are actually starting to see that in many areas that we were worried about:  Florida ,  Texas , even on the West Coast in  San Francisco . So, we are seeing this already."
  "And, if there [are] 14 days of it, you can then go to Phase 1 where  restaurants  reopen,  sporting events  reopen, elective surgeries start again, which we really need badly," he continued.
  CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP 
  "So, this is a Phase 1 and we are probably two weeks away from it in many places. But, I want to add a word of caution here: We need testing, tracing and isolating sick people to really get this to work. We need to ramp up the testing," Siegel urged.
  "Because we know we have 675,000 cases in the United States, but we probably have more than a million or two million if you count all of those asymptomatic spreaders," he added. "So, we need to know what's really going on in the region, and to do that we need the rapid testing I have been talking about in place. That will really make this work."
 