Americans want the federal government to show them the money—and lawmakers are eager to do just that.
  A key provision of the economic-relief package passed by Congress is a  plan to send one-time cash payments , worth an estimated $250 billion in total, to more than 150 million American households.
  The economic effects of the program will likely be different, however, from the similar check-payment programs undertaken during past recessions, analysts say.
  This time, the money is aimed primarily at helping households keep paying their bills and buying necessities if workers lose jobs or income due to the measures taken to limit the spread of the novel coronavirus. That should help tide them over for a while in parts of the country where authorities have ordered nonessential businesses closed and public events cancelled, while urging people to stay home if possible.
  It won’t boost economic output, but  should limit its likely steep drop .
  This is unlike past recessions, such as in 2001 and 2008, when the federal government mailed checks to households to spur consumer spending in hopes of fueling an economic rebound.
  Put differently: The current program is more about helping a family keep buying groceries, while the others were more about prompting it to splurge and buy a new TV.
  Jonathan Parker, a Massachusetts Institute for Technology finance professor and expert on check-payment programs, said that unlike in typical recessions, slumping demand isn’t the problem.
  “Given that it is best to stop much of the economy, the goal of payments to households right now cannot be to get people to spend more,” said Mr. Parker.
  The checks coming this time “are social insurance, not stimulus, he said. “Economic stimulus now—no matter how large—won’t stop a big recession.”
  Under the $2 trillion emergency relief bill that  just cleared Congress , the plan is to send up to $1,200 each to most adults, and $500 per child. The Trump administration said checks will likely be mailed within three weeks.
  In 2008, adults received between $300 and $600, along with $300 more for each child. In total, checks worth close to $100 billion went to 124 million households. As then-President









      
      George W. Bush



       explained  at the time, the aim was to “give our economy a boost to help us pull out of this economic slowdown.”
  Mr. Parker’s research suggests that the 2008 cash-payments program directly lifted the economy at an annual rate of as much as 1.5% of gross domestic product in the second quarter of 2008 and up to 1.0% in the third quarter.
  Another study—this one by University of Michigan professors Joel Slemrod and Matthew Shapiro and Claudia Sahm of the Washington Center for Equitable Growth—found the 2008 checks drove around $32 billion in extra spending over the course of a year. “That amounts to a substantial macro boost,” said Mr. Slemrod.
  The U.S. economy could certainly use such an infusion of consumer demand.  A record 3.28 million workers  filed for unemployment benefits last week as measures to contain the spread of the new coronavirus doused spending across a slew of industries. Morgan Stanley estimates U.S. GDP could shrink at a 30% annual rate in the second quarter.
  “We need people to stop working in public and stop consuming in public in order to stem the spread of Covid-19,” said William Gale, an economist at the Brookings Institution, referring to the disease caused by the virus. “People are losing jobs right and left—they need the cash to actually make the payments they would normally make.”
 