El Salvador President Nayib Bukele announced the country's first coronavirus death on Twitter Tuesday. 
  In the short tweet Bukele added, "God will protect us." 
  El Salvador has reported 32 confirmed cases of coronavirus, according to data from  Johns Hopkins University .
  
  
  
  President Trump on Tuesday again touted  anti-malaria drugs  as a potential treatment for coronavirus, and extolled their safety, despite the lack of scientific studies on the matter. 
  Facts First:  Trump is right that the drugs have been available for a while, but he’s wrong to imply that they’ve been proven safe for Covid-19 patients. Public health officials have said testing is still needed, and trials are underway.  
  Over the weekend, the US Food and Drug Administration  gave emergency authorization  for doctors to use the drugs in hospitals for a limited set of Covid-19 cases. Some physicians have already been using the malaria drugs off-label to treat coronavirus patients.
  The drugs have been used to safely prevent and treat malaria, and for lupus and other conditions. But there isn’t scientific data proving that they’re safe for coronavirus patients. 
  There’s no evidence to back up Trump’s assertion that it’s already known that Covid-19 patients won’t die from the treatment. The drug can lead to cardiac side effects, including an irregular heartbeat, which can be especially dangerous for patients with Covid-19, doctors say.
  Early tests are underway now in New York, the hardest hit area in the US with more than 75,000 cases.
  This  isn’t the first time  Trump has made this comment. His messaging on the drugs have been far more optimistic than the messaging from the public health officials that have attended the daily White House briefings.
  
  
  There are 41,771 positive cases of Covid-19 in New York City and 1,096 fatalities, according to a press release from the New York City mayor’s office Tuesday evening. 
  There were at least 8,400 people hospitalized, and of those individuals, at least 1,888 were in the ICU as of 6 p.m. ET on March 31.
  North Carolina Gov. Roy Cooper said in a press conference this afternoon that he signed an executive order to prohibit utility companies from shutting off services for people unable to pay for gas, electric, water and waste water. 
  Services cannot be shut off for next 60 days, Cooper said.
  President Trump says he doesn’t think he would have responded differently to early indications of the novel coronavirus’ spread if he wasn’t being impeached.
  Trump’s response follows Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell's recent comments blaming Democrats for distracting the Trump administration with impeachment earlier this year as coronavirus was spreading abroad. 
  “I think I handled it very well, but I guess it probably did (distract me). I mean, I got impeached. I think, you know, I certainly devoted a little time to thinking about it,” Trump said during the briefing Tuesday. 
  
  Watch: 
  
  
  
  Nevada Gov. Steve Sisolak issued a travel advisory Tuesday asking everyone entering the state to self-quarantine for 14 days even if they have no symptoms of the novel coronavirus. 
  The advisory does not apply to essential workers, including in the healthcare and food supply industries.
  
  
  New York’s Metropolitan Transit Authority ridership is down 90% since pre-pandemic levels, the group’s chairman and CEO Pat Foye announced Tuesday.
  Foye, who tested positive for coronavirus last weekend, said 582 of his colleagues have also tested positive for the coronavirus.   
  Foye said reports of overcrowding incidents have been sporadic and that the MTA is working closely with the NYPD to control crowding and tell riders to move to a different car or wait for another train. He added that people are mostly complying and he believes no summonses have been issued.
  There are at least 184,343 cases of coronavirus in the US, according to CNN Health's tally of US cases that are detected and tested in the country through its public health systems, 
  So far, 3,796 people have died in the US from coronavirus.
  The total includes cases from all 50 states, Washington, DC,  and other US territories, as well as all repatriated cases. Hawaii and Wyoming are not reporting a death from coronavirus. 
  For the most up-to-date US numbers compiled by CNN,  please check this map which  automatically refreshes every 10 minutes.
  The New Jersey Department of Health confirmed to CNN that the state is ordering additional refrigeration trailers to be placed across the state to serve as additional locations for body storage.
  Leusner also said the chief state medical examiner is working with the Funeral Directors Association to address their needs and concerns.
  New Jersey currently has 18,696 cases of coronavirus,  according to CNN Health's tally.  
 