One. Hundred. Days.
  Sunday, the reelection campaign that President Donald Trump officially opened on the day he was inaugurated enters the final stretch. Democratic challenger Joe Biden holds a lead nationwide of 8.6 percentage points, 49.3%-40.7%, according to the  RealClearPolitics.com average  of recent surveys. That advantage is steady enough that some politicians in both parties have begun calculating what to do in a post-Trump era.
  What could shake things up?
  Possibilities include the development of a safe and effective vaccine against COVID-19, an optimistic turn in the pandemic that has redefined the campaign. An economic rebound or new downturn. A presidential debate that either raises questions about Biden's acuity –  a caustic theme of Trump's campaign  – or reinforces dissatisfaction with Trump's leadership.
  History says it's premature to assume that the campaign is settled. In three of the past 10 elections, the candidate with at least a narrow lead at the end of July lost the popular vote in November, although two of them carried the Electoral College and won the White House anyway. In another three elections, the candidate with no more than a narrow lead in late July won in a blowout.
  That said, since 1980, only one candidate was clearly ahead at this point, then lost the election. That was Democrat Michael Dukakis in 1988.
  The prospect for turmoil this year is higher. In some election years, both political conventions were over by now;  this time,  neither has  been held.  The coronavirus upended the ways candidates can campaign and voters can cast their ballots. And an  unprecedented number of court cases  challenge state laws that advocates say improve ballot security and critics say suppress targeted voters.
  More: 'We can’t support this' RNC plan, Jacksonville sheriff says, raising security concerns 
  "Voters have decided that they're done with Donald Trump," veteran Democratic pollster Peter Hart said, calling Trump "a president of chaos" who failed in handling the COVID-19 crisis and protecting the economy. That put Biden "in a first-rate position to win the presidency," he said, "but it would be a mistake to think that he has solidified his position, because he hasn't."
  In focus groups Hart held, participants raised concerns about Biden's mental fitness. "The reason this election isn't over is because essentially, voters need to understand that he can pass the age and the acuity test," Hart said. 
  Republican strategist John Brabender said he has heard the same thing in focus groups he convened. "That's the first thing everybody will be looking for at the debates," he said. "Can Biden stand up not only to the rigor of the questions but also to the rigors of whatever the president throws at him?"
  The presidential debates top the list of things that could affect the election in the home stretch. 
  Trump is poised to lose an election against Trump – that is, a referendum on his tenure. Though core supporters remain loyal, his overall approval rating has sagged, and his credibility in handling the coronavirus crisis has crashed. 
  That's why the president and his campaign are trying to turn the election into a choice between him and Biden. Or even better, a referendum on Biden, on whether the challenger is up to the job.  Trump's team unleashed  a volley of allegations against Biden, who at age 77 would be the oldest person elected to the White House. (That's a distinction that now belongs to Trump, 74.)
  More: President Trump's campaign to paint Joe Biden as mentally unfit becomes a gamble 
  "Joe Biden is slipping," the narrator in one Trump TV ad says. "Joe Biden does not have the strength, stamina and mental fortitude required to lead this country." On Twitter, Trump derides him as "Sleepy Joe" and worse.
  Biden's best opportunity to demonstrate strength and sharpness will come in the nationally televised debates, which will also be a moment when any misstep would be magnified. Biden said he's ready and eager to participate in the three debates sponsored by the  Commission on Presidential Debates,  scheduled for Sept. 29, Oct. 15 and Oct. 22.
  If the presence of debates is the key test for Biden, the absence of rallies could be the key test for Trump. His test run in Tulsa, Oklahoma, last month, the first rally he had addressed since March, was a disaster when promised crowds didn't show up. The president's insistence on a traditional convention audience to watch him formally accept the GOP nomination may be imperiled, even though the Republican National Convention moved the venue to Jacksonville, Florida, after officials in Charlotte, North Carolina, raised coronavirus concerns.
  "This is not a fireside chat president," Brabender said. "This is not a press conference president. This is a rally president." Loud rallies in packed arenas were the signature of Trump's 2016 campaign, a way to energize both supporters and candidate. "They allow him to do an enormously effective infomercial." 
  At a time of pandemic, that may not be possible.
  The Trump administration faces devastating reviews for its failure to effectively manage the COVID-19 pandemic, a crisis that has cost more than 143,000 Americans their lives. That deadly record can't be undone.
  The development of a vaccine – one that is safe, effective and widely available – would at least change the narrative and offer assurances that the nation is on the road to controlling the coronavirus threat. The news could boost the stock markets and the nation's mood.
  The search for a vaccine is worldwide and unprecedented, and scientists express optimism about the early results from several vaccines under development. They caution that having a vaccine in production even by the end of the year reflects a very ambitious timetable.
  That's reflected in the administration's name for the vaccine effort: Operation Warp Speed. Wednesday, the Department of Health and Human Services agreed to pay  Pfizer nearly $2 billion for 100 million doses  of its experimental vaccine. An additional $2 billion was awarded to Novavax and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals.
  The availability of a vaccine is crucial to the other biggest issue in the campaign: the economy.  Getting adults back to work,  children back to school and commerce back to some version of normal is hard to envision until there is one. Strong economic growth was Trump's biggest political asset until the coronavirus slammed the nation into a recession. 
  Voting is going to be harder than usual this year. The question is how much harder, and for whom.
  One issue is the need for voting officials to respond to the demands of the coronavirus pandemic, which makes standing in lines at firehouses and schools to cast ballots a dangerous prospect for voters and poll watchers. The percentage of ballots cast by mail is likely to skyrocket, though some states struggled to manage that in primaries this year. 
  Are you registered to vote? Check your status or register online now to make sure your vote counts. Go to vote.usatoday.com. 
  A second issue is the passage of legislation, mostly in states under Republican control, that toughens the rules to register to vote and cast a ballot. Since 2010, 25 states have tightened their voting laws, according to the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University's School of Law. Supporters say the laws attack ballot fraud; critics say they have been crafted to discourage voting by African Americans, Hispanics, poor people and college students – all groups that disproportionately vote for Democrats. 
  That prompted court challenges that could unfold before the election, and the new rules could create confusion and disputes on Election Day.
  More: Election lawsuits set record pace amid COVID-19 pandemic as results decide who votes and how Nov. 3 
  "Certainly in modern times, this is the most dangerous election scenario, by far," said Wendy Weiser, director of the Democracy Program at the Brennan Center. "It is at the greatest risk of widespread disenfranchisement and meltdowns, and in a manner that will lead many people to question the fairness of the outcome."
  Problems in access to voting could affect the outcome of the election in key states or undermine public confidence in the legitimacy of whichever candidate wins.
  Events outside the control of campaigns, developments abroad and at home, can shake the final weeks of a campaign. In 2016, Democrat Hillary Clinton said she "was on the way to winning" the White House until then-FBI Director James Comey announced Oct. 28 that he might reopen the investigation into her use of a personal email server when she was secretary of state.
  That ignited an issue Trump had been pressing. He prevailed in the Electoral College after winning three crucial states by the narrowest of margins.
  In 2008,  the collapse of Lehman Brothers  spiraled into the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, dominated media coverage of the final weeks of the campaign and fueled critical coverage of President George W. Bush and his party's nominee to succeed him, Republican John McCain. A campaign that had been deadlocked when the investment banking firm filed for bankruptcy Sept. 15 ended up as a rout for Democrat Barack Obama in November.
  Because 100 days can be a long time.
  Exclusive USA TODAY poll:  Biden widens his lead, but Trump keeps the edge on enthusiasm 
 