[This briefing has ended. For the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak in the New York area, read  Saturday ’s live coverage.] 
  
  Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo on Friday rebutted President Trump’s comments that New York was overstating its need for ventilators and that the state  was overlooking thousands of the machines in storage .
  “We’re gathering them in the stockpile so that when we need them they will be there,” Mr. Cuomo said of the ventilators. “We don’t need them today because we’re not at capacity today.” 
  Later, in an interview on the radio station WAMC, Mr. Cuomo took another swipe at Mr. Trump while discussing the topic.
  “It’s a sort of sensational but ignorant point,” the governor said, adding that “if he got it from Fox, you know the old expression, garbage in, garbage out? That’s what I would say about that.”
  The governor’s remarks came as deaths related to the virus statewide jumped by 134 in 24 hours, to 519.
  In an interview on Fox News on Thursday, Mr. Trump scoffed at New York’s claim that it needs at least 30,000 ventilators — machines that help the sickest patients keep breathing — to fight the crisis. State officials have repeatedly asked the federal government to help close a shortfall they have estimated at more than 20,000. 
  “You know, you go into major hospitals, sometimes they’ll have two ventilators and now, all of a sudden, they’re saying, ‘Can we order 30,000 ventilators?’” Mr. Trump said in the interview. “I don’t believe you need 40,000 or 30,000 ventilators.”
  Mayor Bill de Blasio said on Friday that Mr. Trump failed to grasp the outbreak’s severity. “He’s not looking at the facts of the astronomical growth of this crisis,” the mayor said on ABC’s “Good Morning America.”
  As of Friday morning, 1,583 coronavirus patients in New York State were in intensive care units, nearly all of them on ventilators — a number that has almost doubled in two days. The state has projected that the need for I.C.U. beds will grow for at least several weeks.
  “The only way we can obtain these ventilators is from the federal government,” Mr. Cuomo said this week. “Period.”
  In a survey released on Friday , the United States Conference of Mayors found that 85 percent of American cities did not have an adequate supply of ventilators.
  Mr. Trump, who had been hesitant to use the Defense Production Act to mobilize private businesses to make ventilators, changed course on Friday, officially invoking the act to compel General Motors to produce the devices.
  If the rate of growth in the New York City metropolitan region continues at its current pace,  the area will experience a more severe outbreak  than those in Wuhan, China, or Italy’s Lombardy region. 
  There is no guarantee that current trends will continue, and it is possible that social distancing will soon slow or arrest the growth in cases. But the New York metro area has so far had less success in flattening the curve at this point in its outbreak than Wuhan or the Lombardy region did at the same point in theirs.
  The governor delivered his daily briefing on Friday at the Javits Center, a mammoth convention hall in Manhattan that, with the military’s help, was converted into an emergency hospital set to open next week.
  “What you did in this facility in one week, creating a hospital, is just incredible,” Mr. Cuomo said, addressing National Guard members.
  Other developments from the day:
  Two weeks ago, an  unexpected cluster of coronavirus cases in New Rochelle, N.Y. , seemed to be an unnerving sign that an outbreak that had devastated China and Italy was taking hold in the New York region and could spread rapidly.
  The state took drastic measures that stirred a backlash, including creating a  containment zone.  But now, the latest data indicates that the measures may be starting to work.
  The outbreak, which Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo once said was advancing “unabated” in New Rochelle, has appeared to slow: Over the last four days, only 38 new cases were reported in the county.
  “Everybody talks about flattening the curve, and I think that’s exactly what we were able to do in New Rochelle,” said Dr. Sherlita Amler, the Westchester County health commissioner. “We know we can’t stop every single case, but our goal was to reduce the number of cases, and I do think the measures were successful in doing that.”
  After two transit workers died of the coronavirus, officials at the Metropolitan Transportation Authority said late Friday that they were distributing 75,000 additional face masks to employees.
  “Medical guidance on this issue remains the same,” said Patrick J. Foye, the chairman of the M.T.A., which oversees New York City’s subway and buses and two commuter rails. “Masks offer protection only for those who are ill, and only in prevention of their spreading of the virus.”
  Still, Mr. Foye added, “I know wearing a mask at this uncertain time offers additional comfort to many of our employees, and I am grateful we are able to provide that.”
  Over the past three weeks, transit workers have voiced growing concern that the authority was not providing protective equipment, like masks and gloves, to workers. Fifty-two M.T.A. employees had tested positive for the virus as of Wednesday, officials said.
  On Thursday, Oliver Cyrus, a 61-year-old bus operator,    and a Peter Petrassi, 49-year-old subway conductor, died of the virus, according to Transport Workers Union officials. 
  “This situation is going to spin out of control unless the M.T.A. gets proper protection to transit workers on the front lines,” John Samuelson, the union’s leader, said.
  The fliers from the city went up on a Midtown Manhattan block where homeless people often sleep, warning that the stretch would be cleaned up on Friday and that anyone staying there must move.
  “You must remove your belongings from this location by the date listed or YOUR BELONGINGS MAY BE DISCARDED,” read the fliers, which were placed on 34th Street between Seventh and Eighth Avenues by the city Department of Homeless Services. The fliers said shelter services were available.
  But advocates for homeless people said the directive contradicted new guidance from the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that homeless encampments should not be broken up amid the pandemic unless housing that provided for isolation was available.
  Most of New York City’s homeless shelters for single adults have shared sleeping quarters and bathrooms, making isolation difficult if not impossible.
  “Clearing encampments can cause people to disperse throughout the community and break connections with service providers.,” the C.D.C. website says. “This increases the potential for infectious disease spread.”
  The cleanup is scheduled to happen Friday night, officials said, adding that no homeless people or their belongings were on the block as of Friday afternoon. 
  The virus is already spreading at city homeless shelters. As of Thursday, 59 people in 40 shelters had tested positive for the coronavirus and one had died. Two people who live on the street have also tested positive.
  Craig Hughes, a supervising social worker for the Safety Net Project at the Urban Justice Center, called the street-clearing policy “deplorable” and “harmful to homeless people.” Typically, he said, five to 10 people sleep scattered along the block.
  The city Department of Social Services, which oversees the homeless services agency, said in an email that an individual homeless person sleeping on the street was considered a “pop-up” and not an “encampment.” 
  As the weather gets warmer, New Yorkers may be itching to hang out together in the New York City’s parks. 
  But Mr. de Blasio warned at a news conference on Friday that officials would decide this weekend whether to impose a $500 fine on those flouting social-distancing rules by gathering in large groups at parks and ignoring police orders to disperse. 
  The vast majority of New Yorkers have been respecting the rules, the mayor said, but officials have observed some violations in the past day. 
  Mr. de Blasio also said that a small number of houses of worship were continuing to hold religious services, and that they risked fines or having their buildings permanently closed if the police caught them in congregations this weekend. 
  Separately, Mr. de Blasio said that the city had only enough medical supplies and personnel to last until    Sunday, April 5, and he reiterated his plea for additional federal resources, including military doctors. 
  “There is still time to prepare and get ahead of that date,” he said.
  The mayor also said he was working with state officials to freeze rents this year for 2.3 million tenants living in rent-stabilized apartments to provide them a measure of economic relief. 
  Nearly 150 inmates being held at the city’s Rikers Island jail complex for minor parole violations are expected to be released over the next few days, and about 250 more could be freed soon after, according to officials familiar with the plan. 
  The moves, part of a broader effort by criminal justice officials to release around 1,100 parole violators from jails around the state, are the most significant yet to stem the spread of the coronavirus in New York City’s jails.
  Since the start of the outbreak, dozens of staff members and more than 100 inmates at Rikers have tested positive for the virus, prompting calls from public defenders and prisoner advocates to release hundreds of older and ailing inmates who are especially vulnerable to infection. 
  Working with the city’s five district attorney’s offices and state officials, the de Blasio administration has already released about 375 inmates from Rikers, many of whom were awaiting trial or serving sentences of less than a year. 
  Most of the inmates around the state were in jail on minor infractions, like smoking marijuana or failing to appear for meetings with parole officers.
  The cases of released inmates were closely reviewed to ensure that they had adequate housing and did not present an undue risk to public safety, the state Corrections Department said. 
  It was  not the joyous homecoming Fatehi Darhan had dreamed about  while he lay alone for two weeks in a hospital room in Queens, fighting the coronavirus. He came close to death.
  When he entered his small apartment in the Far Rockaway section of the borough and saw his three young children, their eyes longing for a fatherly hug, he fought every instinct to wrap his arms around them.
  “I froze,” Mr. Darhan, 34, said. “I wanted to hug them, but it did not feel safe. I don’t know when I would feel safe hugging them again.”
  Mr. Darhan’s misgivings underscore the difficulties of returning to normal life after surviving a disease that has changed almost every aspect of living in New York City.
  New Jersey’s 375 long-term health care facilities and nursing homes have had no-visitor policies in place for nearly two weeks. 
  But on Friday, 55 nursing homes in the state had reported that at least one patient had tested positive for the coronavirus, up from 43 on Thursday.
  Nineteen of the 108 people that died in New Jersey after contracting the virus were recently treated in a nursing home, according to Alexandra Altman, a spokeswoman for Govenor Murphy. 
  Two of the hardest-hit facilities, Family of Caring in Montclair and St. Joseph’s Senior Home in Woodbridge,    are now considered sites of “outbreaks,” she said.
  Eleven recent deaths have been linked to Family of Caring. Six of those who died had tested positive for the virus; others died before their test results were returned or died of a respiratory illness before being tested. 
  Officials at Family of Caring at Montclair, which remained open, did not return calls. St. Joseph’s closed on Wednesday after evacuating its 94 patients, most of whom were moved to a nursing home about a half-hour away. 
 