On the Tuesday panel on "CNN Right Now," CNN chief political Correspondent  Dana Bash commended  President Donald Trump for his message to the nation.
  “If you look at the big picture, this was remarkable from the president of the United States,” Bash said of Trump's comments. “This is a nonpartisan, important thing to note and to applaud from an American standpoint and from a human standpoint. He is being the kind of leader that people need, at least in tone, today and yesterday. In tone, that people need and want and yearn for in times of crisis and uncertainty.”
  Bash’s words were picked up by several outlets, including in a widely circulated  Daily Wire article .  
  Bash’s comments were widely circulated on social media, both in video clips and write-ups. Reactions were mixed: supporters of the president praised the journalist for acknowledging the president’s tone, while critics chided Bash for the statement.
  “CNN's Dana Bash is talking about how Trump is becoming the leader Americans lead because he isn't completely denying the existence of a pandemic,”  tweeted  Toronto Star columnist Bruce Arthur. “Dana Bash is evidently insane. The lowest possible bar.”
  In response to criticism of her remarks, Bash also  tweeted , “As I said in the clip you posted below, this is a moment to be non-partisan, American and human — & the TONE the president set at today & yesterday's PRESSERS were remarkably different and welcomed. That's a fact. Let's all take a breath and remember we are all in this together.”
  Trump’s comments in question occurred at a Monday press briefing, where he addressed national anxieties about the spread of COVID-19 and the potential threat of an economic recession.
  “It seems to me that if we do a really good job, we will not only hold the death down to a level that is much lower than the other way ... and we have done a good job ... but people are talking about July, August, something like that," Trump said during the presser.
  A Daily Caller video  linked Bash’s comments to those of New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, who also commended the president for his recent response to the coronavirus.
  “We’re not Democrats and we’re not Republicans, we are Americans at the end of the day,” Cuomo said during a press conference. “The president is doing the right thing in offering to step up in New York, and I appreciate it, and New York will do the right thing in return.”
  The comments come after the two politicians  exchanged barbs on Twitter  about who at fault and meant to handle the rising number of COVID-19 cases in New York state.
  Dana Bash made several positive comments about President Donald Trump’s tone and demeanor during a press briefing on the spread of COVID-19 in the United States We rate this claim TRUE because it is supported by our research. There is no reason to believe that Bash’s comments were disingenuous or that available video of the statements were doctored in any way.
 