The largest teachers union in Florida sued Gov. Ron DeSantis on Monday over his administration's push to fully reopen all public schools next month — even as the number of coronavirus cases in the state is spiking.
  The Florida Education Association accused DeSantis and other state officials of violating a state constitutional mandate to keep public schools "safe and secure." The union asked a state court in Miami to halt the governor's reopening edict, according to a copy of the suit obtained by NBC News.
  The lawsuit,  , names several defendants: DeSantis, state Education Commissioner Richard Corcoran, the state Education Department and the State Board of Education. The legal filing is sure to escalate a nationwide political debate over reopening schools amid the pandemic.
  "Gov. DeSantis needs a reality check, and we are attempting to provide one," Florida Education Association President Fedrick Ingram said in a statement announcing the lawsuit. "The governor needs to accept the reality of the situation here in Florida, where the virus is surging out of control."
  
  Florida is grappling with a significant surge in coronavirus cases, reporting more than   on Monday alone. Protesters heckled DeSantis during a news conference Monday afternoon in Orlando, with some demonstrators shouting, "Shame on you!"
  DeSantis, a first-term Republican, did not immediately respond to a request for comment through his press office.
  Corcoran  this month in which he said schools were "not just the site of academic learning" but also key places for "nutrition, socialization, counseling and extracurricular activities." He said reopening schools was crucial to Florida's "hitting its full economic stride."
  , which applies to the fall academic semester, requires schools to open at least five days a week for all students, subject to guidance from public health officials.   that all Florida schools reopen at full capacity. He argued that if they remained closed, parents would not be able to return to work.
  
  Here's an overview of other coronavirus-related developments making headlines Monday:
  Daniel Arkin is a reporter for NBC News who focuses on popular culture and the entertainment industry, particularly film and television.
 