
  
  The Florida Department of Health is reporting an additional 3,822 cases of coronavirus on Friday, bringing the state total to at least 89,748 according to data released by the state. 
  Friday's numbers mark the  highest number of reported cases  in a single day the state has seen, according to to the Florida Department of Health. 
  The previous record was set just yesterday: Florida reported 3,207 additional coronavirus cases on Thursday. 
  On Thursday, the state of Florida had reported a total of 85,926 cases. 
  
  
  Washington, DC, Mayor Muriel Bowser announced in a statement today that the nation's capital will is set to enter  phase two  of reopening on Monday.
  In phase 2 of reopening: 
  According to the mayor's news release, the District’s reported data for June 18 includes 49 new positive coronavirus cases, bringing the District’s overall positive case total to at least 9,952.
  The District reported three additional Covid-19 related deaths.
  
  
  Despite  rising coronavirus cases  in Oklahoma, President  Trump  is forging ahead to host a rally in Tulsa tomorrow that is expected to be attended by thousands.
  Trump said in a Wall Street Journal interview that  some people at the rally  this Saturday may catch coronavirus, but added “it’s a very small percentage.”
  Oklahoma is seeing a steady increase in its average of new confirmed cases per day. According to a CNN analysis of Johns Hopkins University data, Oklahoma averaged about 203 new cases per day over the week ending June 17, which is up approximately 110% from the previous seven-day period.
  As of Thursday morning, Tulsa County currently has the most cases — 1,825 total — of any county in the state, according to the  Oklahoma State Department of Health . New cases in Tulsa County have also been climbing, and the county is now seeing its highest seven-day average for new cases at 73.9, according to the  Tulsa Health Department .
  Dart noted Wednesday he recommended that the Trump rally be postponed "until it's safer, until the data tells us that it's not as large a concern," to have people in enclosed spaces.
  The Tulsa rally is the President's first since coronavirus shut down the country and halted all in-person campaigning. 
  Local and campaign officials tell CNN that more than a million people have RSVP'd to the rally. A local official involved in planning said they expected 100,000 to show up at the Bank of Oklahoma Center on Saturday. The venue can hold just under 20,000.
  Attendees will not be required to maintain social distance or wear masks, despite the Trump administration's top public health officials stressing the importance of both measures in preventing the spread of coronavirus.
  Two days before the rally is set to take place, a spokesperson for the BOK Center said it had asked the Trump campaign to provide a written plan for safety measures for the event.
  
  
  Kevin Hassett, a senior adviser to President Trump, said he would “definitely” wear a mask if he were attending the President’s campaign rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma, on Saturday. 
  Hassett, who advises the President on economic issues, said he receives data about the coronavirus every day for each state in the US. He says that data shows an increase in Covid-19 cases in about 18 states right now, but that the increase in cases is higher than hospitalizations. 
  “The spikes aren't necessarily correlated where we're seeing less social distancing and more economic activity,” Hassett claimed. 
  Oklahoma’s cases per day over the week ending June 17 is  up approximately 110%  from the previous seven-day period, according to a CNN analysis of Johns Hopkins University data. 
  A local official involved in planning the Tulsa rally said they expected 100,000 to show up at the campaign venue, which can hold about 20,000 people.
  Watch: 
  
  
  
  Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine   said he has not ruled out another shutdown in the state, telling CNN's Poppy Harlow that officials have "some tools that we need to use first."
  The governor noted that despite overall cases going down and hospitalizations hitting a plateau, the state saw a spike yesterday in Southwest Ohio – near the Dayton and Cincinnati areas. 
  De Wine said they are watching those spikes "over the next few days."
  WATCH: 
  
  
  
  Eight US states are currently seeing their highest seven-day averages of new coronavirus cases per day since the coronavirus pandemic began, according to a CNN analysis of data from Johns Hopkins University (JHU). 
  The eight states are:  Arizona, California, Florida, Nevada, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Texas and Utah.
  Below is information about each of those states. This data includes new cases reported by JHU through June 18:
  Arizona 
  
  
  California 
  
  
  Florida 
  
  
  Nevada 
  
  Oklahoma 
  
  South Carolina 
  
  
  Texas  
  
  
    Utah  
  
  
  
  Vice President Mike Pence will lead a closed-door meeting of the coronavirus task force today, the second meeting of the task force this week. They also met on Wednesday. 
  The meeting comes one day before President Trump's first campaign rally since the coronavirus pandemic ground American life to a halt, and as state are seeing spikes in cases. 
  CNN's Sanjay Gupta has noted that health experts worry the Trump rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma could become a “super-spreader” type of event. Oklahoma is  seeing a steady increase  in its average of new confirmed cases per day. According to a CNN analysis of Johns Hopkins University data.
  Trump said in Wall Street Journal interview that he would not seek to replicate widespread Covid-19 testing if there was a similar reemergence of the virus in the US. 
  
  
  
  Palm Beach County Commissioner Melissa McKinlay said Friday she doesn't think her county will shut down ad Covid-19 cases increase in Florida, but hopes they will put more precautions in place as they continue to reopen.
  Palm Beach County commissioners will discuss making masks mandatory for the public on Tuesday, according to McKinlay. "I'm hoping my colleagues will agree with some of us who've made that ask," she said.
  McKinlay said the public's resistance to wearing masks in public may come down to virus fatigue. "Florida opened up very quickly," she told CNN's Alisyn Camerota. "I think people thought that that was a return to normal."
  Other counties in the state have moved to make masks a requirement. Orange County, Florida, Mayor Jerry Demings signed an executive order on Thursday mandating face coverings in the county, according to a statement from Demings. 
  Health experts are concerned Florida shows signs of becoming the  next coronavirus epicenter.  Florida reported 3,207 additional coronavirus cases on Thursday — the largest single-day count in the state since the pandemic, according to the state health department.
  
  
  As the number of coronavirus deaths in the US approaches 120,000, former acting White House Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney says the "raw number of cases" is not the right metric to use. 
  Information about Covid-19 changes every day, and as testing increases, there are more cases, he said.
  “I’m not trying to minimize what the disease is; I’m trying to put it in perspective,” he said. 
  In early March, President Trump announced he was  replacing Mulvaney  as his acting chief of staff. He now serves as US special envoy for Northern Ireland. 
  At the CPAC conference in February, Mulvaney said Trump’s opponents were capitalizing on growing coronavirus concerns. “They think this is what’s going to be what brings down the President. That’s what this is all about,” he said during the conference. 
  When asked by Sciutto if he was wrong, Mulvaney said that the information that the administration was receiving from the CDC did not indicate the widespread growth of coronavirus.  
  Back then, he said they were comparing the novel coronavirus to other coronaviruses — SARS and MERS — which largely did not affect the US.
  
 