During a hearing Tuesday on whether to declare racism a public health crisis in Ohio, a GOP state senator referred to “the colored population” and questioned whether they get COVID-19 more often because they do not wash their hands as much.
  During a discussion with Angela Dawson, director of the Ohio Commission on Minority Health, Sen. Steve Huffman, a doctor from Tipp City north of Dayton, said, “I understand that African Americans have a higher incidence of prior conditions and that makes them more susceptible to COVID, but does not make them more susceptible just to get COVID.
  “We know it’s twice as often, correct? Could it just be that African Americans – the colored population — do not wash their hands as well as other groups? Or wear a mask? Or do not socially distance themselves? Could that just be maybe the explanation of why there’s a higher incidence?”
  Dawson, who is black, replied, “That is not the opinion of leading medical experts in this country.”
  Huffman issued an apology later:
  “Regrettably, I asked a question in an unintentionally awkward way that was perceived as hurtful and was exactly the opposite of what I meant. I was trying to focus on why COVID-19 affects people of color at a higher rate since we really do not know all the reasons."
  But Rep. Stephanie Howse, a Cleveland Democrat who is president of the Ohio Legislative Black Caucus, told the Dayton Daily News that Huffman’s word choice and question represent systemic racism.
  “He highlights what racism is from a systematic perspective. He’s a full legislator but beyond that, professionally, he’s a doctor,” said Howse, who attended the lengthy hearing of the Senate Health, Human Services and Medicaid Committee.
  “When we talk about the health disparities that happen because black folks aren’t believed when they’re actually hurt, they aren’t given the treatment that they need. Do you think that someone who acknowledges the ‘coloreds’ is going to give the love and care that people need when they come through those doors?”
  Comment is being sought from Senate President Larry Obhof and others.
  drowland@dispatch.com
  @darreldrowland
 