Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox.   Sign up here. 
  Maryland   Gov. Larry Hogan , a  Republican , said Tuesday he was not sure why  President Trump  was upset with him about federal  coronavirus testing capacity  because his state had done as the president instructed.
  In an interview on  "America's Newsroom"  with host Sandra Smith, Hogan said he had a great call on Monday with  White House Coronavirus Task Force  leader  Vice President Mike Pence  and the president's team, and expressed his gratitude for all they had done to help in the fight against the deadly  virus .
  But there was an apparent disconnect between that "completely positive call" and President Trump admonishing Hogan's response.
  CLICK HERE FOR COMPLETE CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE 
  Hogan and his wife Yumi Hogan – a Korean immigrant who speaks fluent Korean – took  the president's message  from a few days earlier that state and local government needed to step up their efforts to secure  medical supplies . The pair were able to successfully negotiate with suppliers in  South Korea  and  obtained 500,000 test kits for their state .
  Hogan later  told The New York Times  the process "should not have been this difficult."
  But President Trump went on the defensive, telling reporters the federal government has done a "really good job in testing."
  "Governor Hogan: he didn't really know. It was very obvious to any of those listening on the call today...he really didn't know about the federal  laboratories ," President Trump accused.
  "They put out a list of the labs that are in our state and said, 'These are your state labs. You should be utilizing them.' We already knew where the state labs were in our state, but the list that they gave us was mostly federal labs, which we have been attempting to use for more than a month now," Hogan remarked.
  "So we got a commitment yesterday from the vice president and from the president that we can now use federal labs — which is terrific. But the president was not on the call and, somehow, I think he got confused in the press conference," he pointed out.
  "I'm really not sure what he was upset about," Hogan told Smith. "We did what he told us to do which was go out and get our testing. And, we had a great call with his entire team yesterday and I was leading the call on behalf of all the governors."
  "Did you reach out to them after he said that?" asked the "Newsroom" host.
  "No, I haven't," Hogan replied. "But I know he's meeting with  Governor Cuomo  today who is my vice chairman [of the National Governors Association] and hopefully  they will get a chance to talk  and maybe I'll talk with them."
  "I think the vice president corrected him yesterday in the press conference," he noted. "It was a great call. I don't think he was on the call [and] didn't understand what the discussion was about. But, I have no idea what he was upset about."
  Although Maryland is not one of the top 10 states with the most cases, Hogan said the curve is trending upward once more, necessitating testing if the Old Line State wants to reopen its  economy  in full.
  CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP 
  President Trump's "Opening Up America Again"  plan outlines that states must have 14 days of downward trending numbers in order to do so.
  "We flattened the curve. We've lengthened the curve. But, now we are starting to go up," he clarified. "So, we are now 25,000 cases today in the region — over 1,000 deaths. And so, under the president's own plan, we can't reopen yet."
 