Major news providers on Monday began heeding the  wise counsel of the Erik Wemple Blog  — not to mention that of  MSNBC’s Rachel Maddow  and  The Post’s Margaret Sullivan . Deep into the coronavirus briefing hosted by President Trump and members of the White House coronavirus task force, CNN and MSNBC cut away from the proceedings. Great news in a time with so little of it.
  CNN pulled out of the briefing at 7:19 p.m., after more than 70 minutes of live coverage — coverage that included Trump riffing about the possibility of ending the shutdown measures tailored to suppressing spread of the disease. “So, yeah, it’s bad,” said Trump, responding to a question about a dire prediction from Surgeon General Jerome M. Adams earlier on Monday. “And it’s going to — obviously, the numbers are going to increase with time, and then they’re going to start to decrease. And we’re going to be opening our country up for business because our country was meant to be open and working with others, but especially for our workers.”
  That cockamamie theme — yes, things are problematic, but we’re moving toward a relaxation of countermeasures — became something of a mantra for the president. “Within New York, you have areas which are troubling, and we’ll be working with the governor and the mayor and everybody else on those spots,” Trump said. “But at the same time, at a certain point, we have to get open and we have to be — we have to get moving. We don’t want to lose these companies, we don’t want to lose these workers.”
  MSNBC cut away at 7:21 p.m., as task force member Deborah L. Birx was explaining  coronavirus  data and mortality rates. Moments earlier, she had fielded a bizarre question or two from Trump himself:
  In light of all the speculation, illogic and rickety optimism that the president has sprayed about the briefing room, this was something of an outlier — a reasonable question about what the future holds. We know that the coronavirus will have a vast and lasting impact on how we live. Why wouldn’t the change affect the White House briefing room? “So we’re learning a lot about social distancing and respiratory diseases. And I think those are the discussions we had to have in the future,” Birx responded to the president. “It was what you were talking about — changing our whole behavior patterns of what we touch, and being conscious of that.”
  Fox News  stayed with the briefing for its entirety of nearly two hours . Deputy press secretary Judd Deere had some thoughts about the coverage decisions:
  CNN issued a statement responding that “if the White House wants to ask for time on the network, they should make an official request. Otherwise we will make our own editorial decisions.” An MSNBC spokesperson explained that “the information no longer appeared to be valuable to the important ongoing discussion around public health.”
  Though the Erik Wemple Blog is no great booster of cable-news programming, we’ll take it any day over a rambling and lying President Trump. CNN and MSNBC, in fact, need to be more aggressive in cutting off the president in these briefings. There’s no reason their staffers can’t scour the briefing, produce a package with the newsworthy highlights and air it moments after the session concludes. If ever there were a time when Americans can wait for a few minutes, coronavirus is it.
  In an email to the Erik Wemple Blog, White House press secretary Stephanie Grisham denounced the truncated airing of the briefing:
  Bolding added to highlight an astonishing claim. If it’s not the job of the media to decide which presidential appearances to cover, what  is  its job?
  Read more by Erik Wemple :
  Want to know why Trump shouldn’t be allowed on live TV? Listen to Anthony Fauci. 
  Trump called the media ‘the enemy of the people.’ He means it. 
  Trump didn’t need intelligence briefings to appreciate coronavirus. Tucker was on the case! 
  ‘I’d say you’re a terrible reporter’: Trump melts down during coronavirus press briefing 
 