
  Herman Cain, the former presidential candidate and former CEO of Godfather’s Pizza,  has died  from coronavirus, according to an obituary sent from his verified Twitter account and Newsmax, where he was launching a television show.
  Cain tested  positive for Covid-19 on June 29  and was hospitalized on July 1 after developing symptoms serious enough to be hospitalized, according to the statement posted on Twitter. 
  Cain was a co-chair of Black Voices for Trump, and his last public appearance was as one of the surrogates at President  Trump's June 20 rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma.  Trump campaign spokesperson Tim Murtaugh told CNN at the time that Cain did not meet with Trump at the Tulsa rally. 
  It is unknown where Cain contracted the virus. Cain was  pictured  at the indoor rally not wearing a mask.
  As a cancer survivor, Cain, age 74, was considered at an increased risk for coronavirus, according to US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidance.
  
  For the third day in a row, the state of Florida is reporting a record number of coronavirus related deaths. 
  On Thursday, the state reported 253 additional deaths, breaking the previous record of 216 deaths on Wednesday, according to the Florida Department of Health. 
  The statewide resident death toll is now 6,586.
  The state is also reported at least 9,956 new coronavirus cases, bringing the state's total to 451,423. 
  There is “no evidence” that hydroxychloroquine works for treating Covid-19, Dr. Deborah Birx, the White House coronavirus response coordinator, said on Thursday.
  During an interview on "Fox & Friends," Birx was asked about  the viral video  that made several false claims about coronavirus, including that hydroxychloroquine, used in combination with zinc and Zithromax, is the cure for the virus.
  Birx said science and medicine have "always been full of accounts like this. And that's why you do randomized clinical trials to actually be able to compare patient-to-patient."
  
  Dr. Deborah Birx, the White House coronavirus response coordinator, said Thursday that it is possible for the country to get coronavirus case counts low enough for children to go back to school.
  Speaking during an interview on "Fox & Friends," Birx said there are school districts where the coronavirus test positivity rate in the community is under 5%. "What we want is the whole country to be able to go back to school, and all of those case counts down to what we call the ‘green states.’"
  Birx also said the way Americans can help get children back to school is by doing "what the President has asked," which includes wearing masks, socially distancing and avoiding gatherings where you can't socially distance.
  Norway will reimpose a 10-day quarantine requirement for travelers arriving from Belgium after a rise in Covid-19 cases there, the Foreign Ministry said in a statement on Thursday.
  The new rule goes into effect on Saturday. 
  Norway last week reintroduced restrictions on travel from Spain in a bid to prevent the spread of coronavirus.
  
  
  Iceland’s government announced tougher coronavirus-related restrictions Thursday following new outbreaks in the country. 
    The new rules  take effect starting tomorrow. Here's a look at them: 
  If those measures aren’t sufficient to halt new outbreaks, the government has said it will look at further action in relation to border controls.  
  Some background:  Iceland has been praised for its handling of the virus, its extensive testing capacity, and its tracking and tracing methods. 
  The current rules were due to be relaxed even further on Aug. 4, but new outbreaks in the country have instead resulted in the new stricter measures. 
  The announcement comes a day before a long weekend in Iceland and one of its busiest travel periods of the year.  
   
  Brazilian Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation Marcos Pontes announced he has tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Pontes said he is fine and has few symptoms via Twitter. 
  The minister also posted a video announcing he took the Covid-19 test on Tuesday after feeling some fever. He said that he intends to take nitazoxanide, a vermifuge that is been tested by his ministry for Covid-19. "I am even going to join the nitazoxanide tests," he said.
  Pontes becomes the fifth minister of President Jair Bolsonaro's government to be diagnosed with the virus.
  Augusto Heleno, Minister of Internal Security; Bento Albuquerque, Minister of Mines and Energy; Onyx Lorenzoni, Minister of Citizenship; and Milton Ribeiro, Minister of Education, have tested positive for Covid-19.
  Wall Street opened sharply in the red on Thursday, following an economic data-heavy morning. 
  US second quarter GDP  declined at an annual rate of 32.9%,  slightly less than economists had predicted. Meanwhile, initial jobless claims  ticked up from the prior week , indicating that the crisis isn’t over.
  Here's where things opened today: 
  
  British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said it was “absolutely vital” for people in the UK not to “delude ourselves into thinking we are out of the woods or that this is somehow all over” as Europe feels the initial ripples of a second coronavirus wave.
  Speaking during a visit to North Yorkshire in England on Thursday, Johnson said the way to avoid a “damaging second wave” was to adhere to social distancing guidelines, practice regular hand-washing, and wear face masks on public transport and in shops.  
  Johnson said that despite the fact that death numbers in the UK “are well down,” his message to Britons remained “don’t lose focus, don’t lose discipline, continue to follow those guidelines, and if you have symptoms get a test.”
  The Prime Minister said he was monitoring the “resurgence of the virus in some other European countries” and the rising case numbers in the United States.
  He said consequently it was “absolutely vital” that Britons “don’t delude ourselves into thinking we are out of the woods or that this is somehow all over.”
  Johnson also strongly encouraged Britons experiencing any coronavirus symptoms to get a test. This comes after an announcement from the chief medical officers of the four UK nations Monday, stipulating that anyone experiencing Covid-19 symptoms must now self-isolate for ten days rather than the previously advised seven.
  Addressing recent flare ups of the virus in areas such as Oldham, Johnson said he knew it was “tough” for residents but that “the best way to deal with this is if we have tough local lockdowns.” 
  He paid tribute to the “the efforts of local people in many, many places across the country from Kirklees to Ashford” working to get the virus under control.
 