Good morning, NBC News readers.
  While doctors and hospitals are struggling on the frontlines of the coronavirus pandemic in the United States, South Korea's ability to halt the spread of the virus offers some hope and a glimpse of post-lockdown life.
  Here's what we're watching this Thursday morning.
  Many health care professionals already exhausted by their work treating   patients say they are dealing with a bombardment of misinformation and harassment from conspiracy theorists, some of whom are pressing doctors for proof of the severity of the pandemic.
  And  , NBC News' Ben Collins reports.
  Dr. Hadi Halazun, a cardiologist in New York, said dealing with conspiracy theorists is the "second most painful thing I've had to deal with, other than separation of families from their loved one."
  Many of the doctors Collins spoke with pin the blame on social media companies for not doing enough to counter the misinformation on their platforms.
  "I do think it's a monumental task to hold these companies to account, but in the COVID case, they truly have blood on their hands," said Dr. Duncan Maru, a physician and epidemiologist in Queens, New York.
  The doctors' outrage comes as the U.S. death toll related to COVID-19  , according to NBC News' count.
  Here are some other developments:
  Hospitals in the United States could lose more than $500 billion in 100 days during the coronavirus pandemic, according to former Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin.
  While Congress has appropriated $175 billion in total stimulus funding to hospitals, he said even that amount will not be enough to close the fiscal gap hospitals are facing.
  Without proper funding to offset major financial losses during the pandemic, the  .
  Large hospitals could begin to see their capabilities and care resources fade, warned Shulkin and others who have served at the helm of major hospitals.
  "There is no hospital in the country, I don’t think, that could survive a year of what’s happened in March and April," said Jefferson Health CEO Dr. Stephen Klasko, who also serves as president of Thomas Jefferson University.
  South Korea ended its stringent social distancing policies Wednesday after halting the spread of the coronavirus.
  Only two new cases of the virus and one death were reported in South Korea on Wednesday.
  Those enviably low infection rates are the result of an aggressive campaign of early detection and tracing — over 1 million tests have been conducted since the first incident of the virus in late January. The result has been a death toll of only 255 people among a population of over 51 million.
  But while sports fans will soon be allowed to return to stadiums and museums and libraries began to reopen, life remains far from normal.
  Thermal scanners at theme parks, shopping for makeup while wearing masks and constant tracking of people's whereabouts through apps and credit card data are   in the country leading the way in its response to the virus.
  "Everyday distancing does not mean returning to life before COVID-19," Kim Kang Lip, vice minister of health and welfare, said Tuesday at a news briefing. "It means building new social norms and a culture based on exercising social distancing."
  Michelle Obama controls her own complex narrative in the new Netflix documentary "Becoming," TV and film critic  .
  Quarantine fatigue and stress is real. .
  Minimizing your impact on the environment may be easier than you think. Here are the  to reduce plastic in the kitchen, according to experts.
  Now, how about a story that has nothing to do with coronavirus...
  I'll give you one guess on who might be a side beneficiary of the U.K.'s exit from the European Union:  .
  Driven by a need to diversify, U.K. landowners are embracing "rewilding" — allowing, even encouraging, the return of native plant and animal life to long-changed ecosystems.
  That includes short, stout and sturdy wild ponies, among other species.
  Thanks for reading the Morning Rundown.
  Please send me any comments or questions you have on the newsletter: petra@nbcuni.com
  And if you'd like to receive this newsletter in your inbox Monday to Friday, please sign-up  
  Be safe and stay healthy, Petra
  Petra Cahill is a senior editor and writer for NBC News Digital. She writes NBC News' Morning Rundown newsletter. 
 