Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox.  Sign up here . 
  In times of uncertainty, pulling together to help is crucial to the  health ,  well-being  and stability of our local communities.
  As the ongoing  coronavirus  pandemic has shown, some of our communities need help more than ever. And although it may seem daunting at first, there are plenty of ways to lend support, funds or even a helping hand in these trying times.
  HOW TO HELP YOUR FAVORITE RESTAURANTS STAY AFLOAT 
  Don’t know where to start? Here’s a few ideas to get you going.
  Be responsible 
  One of the first and best ways to help your local community is to be mindful of federal, state or local guidelines aimed at preventing the spread of COVID-19. This means avoiding congregating in groups larger than 10, staying home when sick, maintaining safe distances (i.e., social-distancing) when in public, and being mindful of any other ordinances or orders issued by health or government officials.
  Volunteer 
  Organizations that feed and run errands for the elderly or otherwise unable are always seeking volunteers.
  Meals on Wheels America , for instance, has said some of its programs are “desperately seeking volunteers” amid the COVID-19 pandemic. (At the moment, the organization says it is focusing its efforts on assigning volunteers to communities in the most urgent need.)
  Feeding America , too, is seeking volunteers to help pack and organize groceries at its food banks and pantries. Be sure to check with your local food banks and help hotlines to see how they could best use your help.
  Online communities are also cropping up in an effort to extend help where it’s needed most. By joining these online groups -- sometimes called  “caremongering” groups  -- community members can stay informed of the needs of neighbors, and offer to help where they can.
  Be aware, however, that help should always be given in accordance with local, state and federal safety guidelines (and especially those concerning visits to the elderly, or those that might breach any “shelter-in-place” orders) to prevent putting people at further risk of illness.
  CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR LIFESTYLE NEWSLETTER 
  Donate money, food or blood 
  If you’re unable to donate your time, many of those same organizations in your community will gladly accept financial support. Find reputable organizations in your neighborhood that are helping where it’s needed most. Your local food banks, too, are likely welcoming donations of canned or non-perishable items, as well as basic necessities.
  Your nearby blood banks and hospitals are also  in need of donations , according to a recent call from the U.S. Surgeon General.
  “Social distancing doesn’t mean social disengagement,” Surgeon General Jerome Adams said in a press conference at the White House on Thursday. “So give blood today, you’ll feel good about it.”
  FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS 
  Patronize your local restaurants 
  Restaurants are being hit hard amid the outbreak, with dozens of states banning in-person dining altogether -- leaving some eateries struggling to pay bills and keep staff employed. In mid-March, the National Restaurant Association reported that the industry could lose nearly half of its 15.6 million workers and a quarter of annual sales during the  COVID-19 crisis .
  To help ensure your favorite local dining spot is safe, be sure to continue to patronize it in any way you can, by ordering takeout, delivery or even purchasing gift cards (if available) for a future date. Chefs and foodies have also organized petitions to ask the government to “Save America’s Restaurants” with emergency employment benefits for the nation’s food-service workers, among other relief efforts.
  Your community may also be included in localized efforts to  organize direct financial assistance  for your favorite dining establishments.
  CLICK HERE FOR FOX NEWS' CONTINUING CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE 
  Support essential workers 
  While non-essential workers may be working from home, or temporarily on leave, the essential workers who continue to trudge into work, day in and day out, need our support more than ever. Medical personnel, truck drivers, drive-thru workers, supermarket staffers, delivery drivers, social workers -- these people are continuing to work for the benefit of our communities. Ask if they could use a meal, some coffee, a bus pass you no longer need -- even a few kind words can go a long way.
 