Marianna Sotomayor
  WILMINGTON, DEL. — In remarks just outside his hometown Tuesday, former Vice President Joe Biden attacked President Trump’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic, and accused the president of not caring about the American people.
  “For all his bluster about his expertise on the economy he is unable to explain how he'll actually help working families hit the hardest. You know, he's quit on you, and he's quit on this country,” Biden said. 
  And Biden reiterated his belief that the election in November will be about uniting Americans, not about himself.
  “It's about you. It's about what we'll do, what a president is supposed to do. A president’s supposed to care, to lead, to take responsibility, to never give up,” he said.  
  Biden’s remarks came after he unveiled the third pillar of his “ Build Back Better ” economic agenda. This proposal, which is estimated to cost $775 billion, is devoted to training the next generation of educators and caregivers, and giving families and caregiving workers a better opportunity to make ends meet. The  two other planks  in his economic agenda cost $2.7 trillion. 
  In an effort to relate to Americans facing financial and familial instability in the wake of the pandemic, Biden recalled becoming a single father to his sons after his wife and infant daughter died in a car crash at the beginning of his Senate career. He described feeling hopelessness, but promised Americans experiencing that now that it will be okay. 
  “There's just that feeling, that sense, when you just don't know if everything’s going to turn out okay. And I'm here to tell you that it can be, and it will be,” he concluded.
  The Biden campaign also kicked off a $15 million ad buy on Tuesday and released three new ads. Two of the ads focus on the coronavirus pandemic —  one  explaining why it's important to wear a mask, and the other  touting  Biden's experience handling the Recovery Act and the ebola crisis as proof he can also handle the pandemic. The  third ad , which runs in Spanish, will be broadcast in Arizona and Florida and focuses on Biden's track record with immigrant families. 
 