Indonesia has banned all citizens from traveling to their hometowns for Eid al-Fitr celebrations in an effort to contain the spread of novel coronavirus, the country’s President Joko Widodo said Tuesday.
  Millions of people normally go back to their hometowns to see their families every year in a homecoming tradition known as "mudik," the report said.
  Jokowi did not provide specifics on how the ban will be enforced.
  The President also said the decision was taken to curb travel after a recent government study showed the majority of the population did not intend to return home for the festival. However, around 24% of Indonesians were still planning to make the journey, Antara reported.
  Indonesia has recorded more than 7,000 coronavirus cases and at least 616 deaths, according to Johns Hopkins University.
  This post was updated to reflect that Jokowi did not provide specifics on enforcement of the ban. 
  
  New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Tuesday that US President Donald Trump agreed to take ownership of the national supply chain to get coronavirus testing kit manufacturers the supplies they need to produce kits
  The problem with bringing testing up to scale is the national manufacturers who make the testing kits and send them to state labs, Cuomo said. Those companies say they have a problem with the supply chain getting swabs, vials and chemicals to produce the testing kits, Cuomo added.
  The governor said his  meeting at the White House  was “very productive, positive, got a lot done."
  Some of the meeting focused on the importance of dividing the responsibilities between states and federal government to scale up testing, he said.
  The state will be responsible for managing diagnostic and antibody testing, who to test, where to test and tracing cases, Cuomo said.
  The goal is to double New York State’s testing from 20,000 diagnostic tests to 40,000 diagnostic and antibody tests, he said.
  “It will take several weeks at best, this is an enormous undertaking,” Cuomo added.
  As several states make plans for reopening their communities during the coronavirus pandemic, a group of top public health experts cautioned Tuesday against reopening society before testing capacity expands significantly.
  Different parts of the country are in different stages of the epidemic, with New York well into the first wave and other places just beginning to see the impact of the disease. This matters, said Dr. Caroline Buckee, Harvard associate professor of epidemiology and the associate director of the university’s Center for Communicable Disease Dynamics. 
  Knowing the location of the virus is key to relaxing social distancing and returning to normalcy, Buckee told a symposium sponsored by Harvard’s T.H. Chan School of Public Health and the New England Journal of Medicine.
  The lack of testing capacity is a big problem because the disease has “a very broad clinical spread,” Buckee said. So even when people show up at the hospital and get tested there are many more cases in the community, including mild and asymptomatic cases. “And those are the people that are spreading the disease,” she said.
  It’s important to learn whether people who have recovered can still spread the disease, noted NEJM editor Dr. Eric Rubin. 
  Buckee added that without knowing the answers, the nation could reopen too soon and risk a deadly second pandemic wave.
  “Right now, we don’t have good estimates for where we are on the epidemic curve in different places. So, discussions of relaxation of physical distance, which do seem to be having an effect, curbing some of the worst impacts of the outbreak, need to be based on the capacity to test people so we know where we are,” she said.
  The novel coronavirus lingers for as long as three weeks in the bodies of patients with severe disease, Chinese researchers reported Tuesday.
  The virus can be found deep in the lungs and in the stool of patients, and the sicker they are, the longer it stays, the team at a hospital in China’s Zhejiang province reported. But the virus was found in the urine of patients less than half the time, and rarely in the blood at first. 
  Their report provides another piece of evidence about the pattern of disease in Covid-19 patients. It was published in the BMJ. Unlike many recently released studies about the coronavirus, this one has gone through peer review, which means other experts have reviewed the findings.
  The team tested 96 patients treated in their hospital for Covid-19 between January and March. They tested samples from the nose and throat, from deeper in the respiratory system, in the blood, stool and urine. They wanted to see how long people had virus in their systems and whether it was likely to spread in various ways. The findings support other studies showing that the virus could spread in stool from infected people.
  In general, the sicker people were, the longer the virus could be detected. That could be important for doctors to know, so they can predict which patients will fare better, and, perhaps, how long they may remain infectious to others. 
  “The median duration of virus in respiratory samples was 18 days,” they wrote. 
  More on this:  An earlier Chinese study showed that people without symptoms had just as much virus in their noses as people who had Covid-19 symptoms -- something that indicated people who are not sick could be just as likely to spread virus as people who are.
  The team in Zhejiang found that sicker people had more virus deeper in their respiratory tracts, however.
  They also found differences between men and women with Covid-19. “In this study, we found that the duration of virus was significantly longer in men than in women,” they wrote.
   
  
  
  Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte outlined a five-point plan for managing the coronavirus epidemic on Tuesday.
  Addressing Italy's house of representatives, Conte said that the plan will focus on:
  The number of patients admitted to intensive care in France has declined for the 13th consecutive day, Jerome Salomon, the director of France's health agency, announced on Tuesday.
  Salomon, speaking at his daily news conference in Paris, gave an overview of where things stand now:
  
  
  The Netherlands will extend its lockdown for most businesses until May 20 and ban large events until September 1, Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte said during a news conference on Tuesday.
  “As much as I understand that impatience is creeping in, we know that a rapid easing could lead to the virus immediately getting the chance to peak again,” Rutte said.
  The uncertainty is still “too large” for businesses that require close contact, like barbers and nail salons, he said.
  Primary students will begin attending school in a staggered fashion starting May 11.
  He said that social distancing for these students is “not realistic,” but that all evidence indicates that their Covid-19 risk is much lower. 
  Some other primary education institutions like nurseries and special education will be able to open to students full time.
 