Monotony is among the problems with President Trump’s briefings on the novel  coronavirus . He stands at the lectern of the White House briefing room and repeats the same things he’s said on countless occasions since the sessions began in earnest in late February.  The travel restrictions against China saved “thousands” of lives .  We’re testing more than any other country .  We’re doing a great job .
  With one remark at Thursday’s coronavirus briefing, however, Trump ensured that journalists, citizens, bureaucrats and the disinfectant community would have a great deal to talk about through the weekend.
  “I see the disinfectant that knocks it out in a minute, one minute,”  said the president . “And is there a way we can do something like that by injection inside, or almost a cleaning? Because you see it gets inside   the lungs and it does a tremendous number on the lungs, so it would be interesting to check that.” In making those highly irresponsible remarks — no, do not ingest disinfectant in an attempt to treat covid-19! — the president was riffing on a presentation by William N. Bryan, acting undersecretary for science and technology at the Department of Homeland Security. Increases in temperature and humidity, according to preliminary research, are “less favorable” to coronavirus; “solar light” has a similar impact, Bryan said at the briefing.
  On the matter of light, Trump provided this insight: “Supposing we hit the body with a tremendous — whether it’s ultraviolet or just very powerful light — and I think you said that that hasn’t been checked, but you’re going to test it. And then I said, supposing you brought the light inside the body, which you can do either through the skin or in some other way, and I think you said you’re going to test that too. It sounds interesting.”
  “We’ll get to the right folks who could,” responded Bryan. Uh-huh.
  Hey, if those things work on inanimate surfaces, who’s to say that they won’t perform equally well on the human body? That, anyhow, appeared to be the thinking of the president — thinking that virtually all of America quickly debunked.
  The maker of Lysol issued this statement: “As a global leader in health and hygiene products, we must be clear that  under no circumstance  should our disinfectant products be administered into the human body (through injection, ingestion or any other route). As with all products, our disinfectant and hygiene products should only be used as intended and in line with usage guidelines. Please read the label and safety information.” (Emphasis theirs.)
  Social media exploded with warnings, commentary and jokes.
  The harmful words from the lectern prompted another episode of the White House version of “Another World,” as illustrated by the immediate coverage on cable news.
  CNN went into warning mode. “President appeared to be suggesting at one point, that you can inject disinfectants into people to kill the coronavirus,” said CNN Chief White House correspondent Jim Acosta. “We want to caution everybody at home, please don’t do that. Please don’t follow the president’s medical advice here.”
  In the 8 p.m. hour, CNN’s Anderson Cooper interviewed Stephen Hahn, commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, and kicked things off with the disinfectant-light topic. The exchange is worth excerpting:
  More fact-checks emerged on CNN through the night, as they did on MSNBC, where one commentator was stunned by the president’s suggestion: “The very fact that the president actually asked somebody about what sounded like injecting disinfectants or isopropyl alcohol into the human body was kind of jaw-dropping," Irwin Redlener, director of the National Center for Disaster Preparedness at Columbia University, said in a chat with MSNBC host Brian Williams. "I don’t know, it’s hard to know how to characterize all this on a family show like this. But let me just try to say that it was incoherent, filled with misinformation and misstatements from one end to the other.”
  Fox News? Funny thing — the Erik Wemple Blog was taking in some of the channel’s fare on Thursday night and didn’t hear too much about this moment of presidential madness. So we went back to the transcripts:
  Which is to say, Fox News viewers who saw Trump wonder about light- and disinfectant-oriented medical breakthroughs on live television didn’t get a debunking until … well, we’ve asked Fox News for an answer on this. On “Fox & Friends” Friday morning, co-host Steve Doocy accurately pointed out that disinfectant is “poisonous” and over on Fox Business, host Stuart Varney said, "Please don’t try this at home.”
  No controversy under Trump would be complete without an effort to blame the media, and right on cue, White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany did so on Friday. This was a remarkable moment, considering the events of recent weeks: McEnany herself has bashed  CNN and MSNBC for not broadcasting these sessions live and in full  — presumably because the White House wants the country focused on Trump’s every word. Here is McEnany’s let’s-have-it-both-ways statement: “President Trump has repeatedly said that Americans should consult with medical doctors regarding coronavirus treatment, a point that he emphasized again during yesterday’s briefing. Leave it to the media to irresponsibly take President Trump out of context and run with negative headlines."
  Yeah, the media and Lysol — united in their out-of-context bias.
  The Opinions section is looking for stories of how the coronavirus has affected people of all walks of life. Write to us. 
  Read more: 
  Full coverage of the coronavirus pandemic 
  Alexandra Petri: America, please don’t put bleach inside yourself like the president says 
  Paul Waldman: Here’s another reason Trump’s suggestion about injecting bleach is so dangerous 
  Erik Wemple: From Fox News, a big dose of dumb on hydroxychloroquine 
  Hugh Hewitt: McConnell wants rescue and relief to be accompanied by reform. He’s right. 
 