With new coronavirus cases confirmed Tuesday, the United States now has more than 1,000 infected people.
  Turbulent trading , and anxieties over the coronavirus failed to subside with an increase in U.S. deaths and New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo ratcheting up protective measures in his state.
  Cuomo deployed National Guard troops to a health department command post in New Rochelle, a suburb of New York City where health officials have reported at least 108 cases of COVID-19 in the area. While there have been no reported deaths in New York, neighboring New Jersey announced its first one: a man in his 60s in Bergen County.
  The markets remained volatile a day after the Dow Jones shed 2,000 points — Wall Street's worst day since the financial crash of 2008. The Dow rallied before giving up most of its gain Tuesday afternoon.
  The coronavirus outbreak has  , which extended the containment measures already in place in northern regions to the entire country, which has confirmed more than 10,140 cases. The death toll in the country stands at more than 630 people.
  
  
  
  Kevin Collier
  Ohio will move polling places from senior housing facilities to address fears of exposure to the coronavirus, Secretary of State Frank LaRose announced Tuesday.
  At least 128 polling locations across the state will have to be relocated by Ohio's primary vote on March 17, a spokesperson said.
  "Yesterday I ordered all 88 counties to relocate any polling locations from senior residential facilities to alternate locations. Obviously, that's a big step and requires a lot of work, and our county boards of elections are working to do that as we speak," Rose said in a press conference. 
  All registered voters in Ohio can vote early or request an absentee ballot, and LaRose also encouraged registered voters to use those options to avoid further exposure. The state is also working to provide hand sanitizer and wipes for polling locations, LaRose said. Voters have until Saturday at noon to request an absentee ballot.  
  Erik Ortiz
  Over the next two weeks, 23,000 students in the Northshore School District in suburban Seattle are learning from home in the midst of the   gripping Washington state and rippling across the country.
  But with students' daily routines thrown for a loop, another immediate challenge has surfaced for school officials: How do you make sure every child has access to lunch?
  
  Daniel Arkin
  The death toll in Italy now stands at 631 people, according to Angelo Borrelli, the chief of Italy's Civil Protection Authority.
  The total number of cases in the country is now 10,149. In total, 60,761 people have been tested for the coronavirus there.
  Minyvonne Burke
  A couple who was aboard a cruise ship on which some passengers were infected with   filed a $1 million lawsuit against the cruise line, alleging it exposed them to the disease.
  Ronald Weissberger, 74, and his wife, Eva Weissberger, 69, of Broward County, Florida, boarded the   in San Francisco on Feb. 21 for what was supposed to be a relaxing vacation to Hawaii.
  The ship was on its way back to California when it was required on March 4 to anchor off the coast after people on the vessel tested positive for coronavirus. 
  
  DTW is so empty they just let a guy walk onto this flight with 3 straight up overhead carry ons and no one blinked.  I’ve never seen a plane this empty  
  Erika Edwards
  Another nursing home in Washington state has reported that one of its residents died from the coronavirus.
  The patient tested positive for the illness last week and died over the weekend, the Issaquah Nursing and Rehabilitation Center said Tuesday.
  Five other residents and two staff members at the facility have also tested positive.
  At a different nursing home — Life Care Center in Kirkland, Washington — 18 residents have died, as well as one person who had visited the facility.
  Mosheh Gains and Erik Ortiz
  A civilian employee of the U.S. Navy's Bureau of Medicine and Surgery in Falls Church, Virginia, has tested positive for the coronavirus,  .
  The employee is the first Navy civilian worker to contract the virus, and remains hospitalized in northern Virginia, the Navy said Tuesday. Other personnel who came into close contact with the individual are in self-isolation and additional precautionary measures may be taken based on further investigation.
  The patient had not traveled out of the country, officials added.
  Janelle Griffith
  A Chinese restaurant chain in Southern California is responding to the coronavirus outbreak by checking customers' temperatures with a handheld infrared thermometer before letting them inside and refusing service to anyone with a fever.
  The eatery, Sichuan Impression, said anyone who refuses to cooperate with the temperature measurement, will be denied service "for the time being." 
  The restaurant's owner said employees are scanned twice a day and sent home if their temperatures are abnormal.
  . 
  Elizabeth Chuck
  More than 8,500 specimens have been tested for the coronavirus across the United States,  to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, a promising sign that testing is finally becoming more widespread in this country after .
  But because multiple specimens are required from each individual, the number of actual patients who have been tested is likely far lower.
  
 