Jackson Browne has tested positive for the  coronavirus.  
  The Rock and Roll Hall of Famer, 71, told  Rolling Stone  that he got tested for COVID-19 after feeling ill and experiencing a "small cough and a temperature." Browne's positive test results confirmed his suspicions.
  "I quarantined immediately upon knowing," he told the music publication. "My symptoms are really pretty mild, so I don’t require any kind of medication and certainly not hospitalization or anything like that."
  Browne's manager, Donald Miller, confirmed his diagnosis to USA TODAY.
  The singer-songwriter says he believes he contracted the virus at the  Love Rocks NYC benefit  on March 12 in New York. New York state has 26,374 confirmed cases of coronavirus alone, according to a  Johns Hopkins University tracker .
  At a press conference held by the White House Coronavirus Task Force Tuesday, task force coordinator Deborah Birx said 56% of all the coronavirus cases in the United States, as well as 60% of all new cases,  are coming from the New York metro area . Greater New York City also accounts for 31% of deaths in the country.
  New Yorkers have been ordered to stay in their homes and the city has virtually shut down in an effort to quell spread of the virus.
  Coronavirus cancellations: 'Wonder Woman 1984,' Camila Cabello tour, 'Friends' reunion, join coronavirus postponements 
  The March 12 Love Rocks NYC benefit Browne attended featured artists Cyndi Lauper, Leon Bridges, Dave Matthews, Warren Haynes, Susan Tedeschi, Macy Gray and Derek Trucks.
  "It turns out that several people who were at that show have tested positive," Browne told the Rolling Stone. "I’m going to try and get in touch with everybody and keep talking with them."
  Coronavirus:   Opera star Placido Domingo, David Bryan of Bon Jovi test positive  
  Browne regrets attending the benefit entirely. "I wish I hadn’t gone to New York and done this benefit," he told the publication. "I think to myself, 'How much simpler would it have been had I just called in and said, 'No, I’m not going to travel on a cross-country flight and spend two days in New York with all these people that are singing all over the country.'"
  Despite his circumstances, Browne says he feels "lucky that I’m not really affected."
  He continued, "I guess I’ve got a really strong immune system. There’s so much we don’t know. The one thing you can do is not go anywhere, not show up anywhere."
  More: Harvey Weinstein tests positive for coronavirus in New York prison 
 