Japan recorded no new coronavirus deaths on Sunday -- the first time this has happened since March 6, around the time when the pandemic saw infection rates soar in the country.
  A total of 38 new infections were recorded on Sunday, according to the country's health ministry.
  This brings the national total to 17,886 cases and 929 deaths, including the 712 infections and 13 fatalities from the Diamond Princess cruise ship that was docked in quarantine off Yokohama Bay for two weeks in February.
  Japan has recorded fewer than 100 new cases per day since May 14.
  
  
  The United States now has at least 1,942,363 cases of coronavirus and 110,514 related deaths, according to data from Johns Hopkins University.
  On Sunday, Johns Hopkins reported 22,302 new cases and 712 new deaths in the US.
  The totals includes cases from all 50 states, the District of Columbia and other US territories, as well as repatriated cases.
  New York remains the hardest hit state, with 378,097 cases and 30,374 deaths. New Jersey, California, and Illinois follow next.
  Zoé Robledo, the director of Mexico's Institute of Social Security, announced on Sunday that he has tested positive for Covid-19 -- just two days after he was seen with the country's President.
  Robledo said he would continue to do his do his work remotely, adding that he was closely following the instructions of his "extraordinary doctors" and that his case was being closely monitored and contact tracing was underway.
  On Friday, Robledo spoke at President Andrés Manuel López Obrador's daily press conference, in the company of the nation's top security officials.
  The President was on stage as Robledo spoke, as well as Secretary of Defense Luis Cresencio Sandoval, Naval Secretary Rafael Ojeda and Secretary of Security and Civilian Protection Alfonso Durazo. 
  The men were spaced apart several feet on stage, but none were wearing masks.  
  
  
  The west Indian state of Maharashtra now has a total of 85,975 coronavirus cases, including 3,060 deaths, the country's health ministry announced Monday.
  The updated tally means Maharashtra now has more cases than all of China, which has 83,040 cases as of today, according to China’s National Health Commission.
  Mumbai, the capital of Maharashtra and home to about 18.3 million people, is the worst hit city nationwide. The city has reported 48,549 cases of coronavirus, including 1,636 deaths.
  India's nationwide total stands at 256,611 cases, according to the country’s Ministry of Health and Family Welfare -- of which, approximately a third are in concentrated in Maharashtra state.
  Lifting restrictions:  India entered the "Unlock 1" reopening phase today, which allows most economic activities to resume.
  But Mumbai still has major restrictions in place, effective for schools, train services, cinemas, shopping malls, places of worship, and more spaces.
  Only essential workers are allowed to move through Mumbai roads, while travel by rail or air is still prohibited unless specifically allowed by separate orders and standard operating procedures.
  Almost all coronavirus restrictions in New Zealand will be lifted tomorrow, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern has announced, after the country reported no active cases.
  Schools and workplaces will be able to reopen  under the new "level 1" rules,  with no limitations on gatherings or domestic travel.
  However, social distancing is still encouraged, and Ardern said New Zealand's international borders will remain shut to non-residents to prevent new outbreaks. Residents arriving in New Zealand will still have to quarantine for two weeks.
  New Zealand currently has no active coronavirus cases, and no positive cases reported in the past 17 days.  
  There has been no one receiving treatment in hospital for Covid-19 for the past 12 days and it has been 40 days since the last case of community transmission.
  Read the full story here: 
  
  
  Pakistan’s total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases has now crossed 100,000, according to the country’s ministry of health. 
  According to the health ministry, Pakistan now has recorded 103,671 infections since the start of the pandemic, and 2,067 related deaths.
  The country diagnosed 4,728 cases in just the past 24 hours, said the ministry. 
  Pakistan lifted its nationwide lockdown in early May, though the rate of new infections continues to rise -- which could be in part due to an increase in testing by the government. 
  The country has conducted 705,833 tests as of Monday, with 22,650 tests conducted in the past 24 hours, said the ministry.
  The US economy is reopening and the labor market is bouncing back after dramatic losses during the height of the Covid-19 lockdown. But a major risk lies ahead.
  The lion's share of economists participating in the June National Associate of Business Economics Outlook Survey -- 87% -- believe a second wave of infections could imperil a rebound and become the biggest danger to America's economy this year.
  The pandemic has claimed  more than 100,000 lives  in the United States and forced the country to go into lockdown in March. Businesses shuttered and laid off millions of people, leading to the  steepest job losses on record  — 20.7 million — in April.
  The  labor market bounced back strongly in May , adding 2.5 million new jobs as states begin to reopen. But the staggered restart of the economy could lead to renewed spreading of the highly contagious virus. This could, in turn, lead to a second lockdown that would bring yet more economic pain.
  Read the full story here: 
  
  
  The fate of next year's  Olympic Games  depends on Japan's handling of the coronavirus, according to the Tokyo governor.
  Gov. Yuriko Koike said the Games could signify a "victory" over the pandemic, but admitted that more work is still needed to improve treatment and testing, and that organizers were contending with a number of uncertainties.
  The Olympics were originally scheduled to begin in July, but  the start date has been moved  to July 24 next year amid the Covid-19 outbreak.
  "The Tokyo 2020 Olympics are an important event that everyone has been waiting for," Koike told CNN's Will Ripley.
  Organizers said in December that the cost of hosting the Olympics was some  1.35 trillion yen ($12.35 billion),  while sponsors, insurers and broadcasters have also committed billions to the Games.
  Read the  full interview here . 
  
  
  The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Sunday said it’s closely monitoring the demonstrations happening across America. 
  The comments come amid concerns that the protests – like other gatherings – could spur additional coronavirus transmission.
  “It is too early to know what, if any, effect these events will have on the federal COVID-19 response. Every local situation is different. State and local officials will make decisions to protect public health and safety based on circumstances on the ground,” she said.
  Earlier this week:  CDC Director Dr. Robert Redfield said protesters should be evaluated and tested for coronavirus.
  “We really want those individuals to highly consider being evaluated and get tested,” Redfield said Thursday at a House Appropriations hearing on the Covid-19 response.
   “I do think there is a potential, unfortunately, for this to be a seeding event,” he said – especially in metropolitan areas where there has been significant transmission.
  Redfield also addressed the use of tear gas and similar chemical agents on protesters, saying these agents can cause people to cough -- which spreads respiratory viruses. 
 