The White House must provide sign language interpreters at public Covid-19 briefings, a federal judge ruled on Wednesday.
  The ruling, which takes effect Oct. 1, applies to any press conference on coronavirus-related matters with President Donald Trump, Vice President Mike Pence or White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany held on White House grounds or at any federal agency. The White House must make interpreter feeds available online and to all television networks, U.S. District Judge James Boasberg ruled.
  The National Association of the Deaf (NAD) and five plaintiffs  the White House earlier this month, urging the administration to provide interpreters for briefings related to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. At that point, the court provided relief for the plaintiffs and hinted that the White House might have to comply.
  "Closed captioning and transcripts may constitute a reasonable accommodation under some circumstances, but not here," the court  in their Sept. 9 decision.
  Pressure from advocacy groups and other independent federal agencies grew as the White House coronavirus task force briefings continued without interpreters. The National Council on Disability released a  in March urging the administration to act, saying "there is no doubt that the Coronavirus brings with it significant added concerns for people with disabilities."
  An estimated 11.5 million Americans have some degree of hearing loss, according to data from the  .
  "Sign language and accurate captioning are both essential and crucial to ensuring all deaf and hard of hearing people are well informed and are able to make better decisions on how to stay safe from the pandemic," NAD CEO   "The judge’s order sets a great precedent to achieve this goal of full accessibility."
  Press briefings with Trump and other members of the coronavirus task force began in March, though they have since gone from daily events to sporadic occurrences timed to specific updates or announcements.
  Over   have died from Covid-19 since the pandemic began.
  Nicole Via y Rada is a news associate for NBC News.
 