This live coverage has now ended. Continue reading  
  Mourners vowing to be good Samaritans in the fight for racial justice packed a Houston church on Tuesday and  , whose death touched off worldwide protests against racism and police brutality.
  “This will be a home-going celebration of brother George Floyd," Fountain of Praise pastor Mia K. Wright told mourners. "We may weep, we may mourn, but we will find hope."
  Tuesday's service came one day after top Democrats in the House and the Senate   in the United States as protests over excessive force by law enforcement against African Americans and others have gripped the nation.
  
  Phil Helsel and Kurt Chirbas
  Recently launched streaming service HBO Max on Tuesday confirmed it removed the 1939 epic "Gone With the Wind" over racist depictions but said the movie will return later with more context.
  The original film will be brought back "with a discussion of its historical context and a denouncement of those very depictions," a spokesperson for the service said in a statement.
  The move comes amid furious calls against racism and for police reform after the death of  , a black man who died May 25 after a   kneeled on his neck for more than eight minutes.
  The Oscar-winning Gone With the Wind, starring Clark Gable, Vivien Leigh, Hattie McDaniel, Leslie Howard and others, and set in the South during the Civil War, has been criticized for minimizing the horrors of slavery.
  . 
  Phil Helsel and Andrew Blankstein
  A Los Angeles Police Department officer who was seen on video repeatedly punching a man in an encounter in April has been charged with felony assault, the county prosecutor said Tuesday.
  Officer Frank Hernandez, 49, is set to be arraigned Thursday, the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office said.
  “This is a disturbing case of the illegal use of force at the hands of a police officer,” District Attorney Jackie Lacey  . “We believe the force was neither legally necessary nor reasonable.”
  Prosecutors say Hernandez and his partner responded to a call of a trespasser at a vacant lot in Boyle Heights on April 27 and that "during a confrontation between police and the victim, Hernandez is accused of illegally punching the unarmed man more than a dozen times in the head, neck and body."
  .
  Dennis Romero
  The 75-year-old protester injured when he fell and hit his head after he was   in Buffalo, New York was out of intensive care Tuesday,  .
  Martin Gugino was hospitalized in serious but stable condition following the fall Thursday as a line of officers cleared a street during a   demonstration. Two officers were   and charged with allegations of second-degree assault.
  On Tuesday, President Donald Trump   that Gugino, a peace activist and  , is a "provocateur" from the anti-fascist, or antifa, movement.
  Gugino's lawyer, Byron W. Brown, responded on  : "The City of Buffalo is laser focused on healing, taking action against racial injustice and building a good future for our residents."
  Dartunorro Clark
  Attorney General Bill Barr on Tuesday defended the federal law enforcement and military presence in Washington, D.C. after   for “inflaming” and “adding to the grievances” of protestors.
  Barr, however, argued that a show of force was necessary because it looked as if “the United States was on the brink of losing control of its capital city" after police clashed with protesters over days following the death of George Floyd. 
  “Had the recent demonstrations remained peaceful and within the control of local law enforcement, the President would never have had any need to augment existing resources for the purpose of restoring law and order," Barr wrote, adding that law enforcement personnel were operating within the scope of the law.
  D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser, a Democrat, sent a letter to Trump, Barr and two mayors last week   of federal law enforcement and various National Guard troops. She also criticized the use of federal personnel patrolling the streets and the use of helicopters to disperse crowds.
  Barr also defended police  outside the White House last week in which rubber bullets, pepper spray, tear gas, and flash-bang grenades were used to make way for Trump to pose for photos with a Bible at St. John's Episcopal Church.
   
  Janelle Griffith
  Al Sharpton  at George Floyd's funeral on Tuesday, stating he should allow Colin Kaepernick to return to the league.
  "Oh, it's nice to see some people change their mind," Sharpton said during a eulogy at the funeral in Houston. "The head of the NFL said,   Football players, maybe they did have the right to peacefully protest.'"
  "Well, don't apologize — give Colin Kaepernick a job back," Sharpton said. His remarks were met with loud applause from the congregation.
  "Don't come with some empty apology. Take a man's livelihood. Strip a man down of his talents," Sharpton also said. "And four years later, when the whole world is marching, all of a sudden, you ... talking about you sorry."
  
  Courtney Kube
  The D.C. National Guard says that some of its members have   since it was mobilized to respond to the protests over George Floyd’s death in Washington, but would not disclose how many had tested positive because of what a Guard official called "operational security."
  As of Monday, June 1, the entire D.C. National Guard, which has 3,400 members, had been activated to assist in the response to protests. Members of the National Guard from other states were brought into the capital as well, including South Carolina, Tennessee, Florida, Utah and Indiana.
  "National Guard personnel are social distancing and use of PPE measures remained in place where practical throughout the entire National Guard support to assist local and federal law enforcement responding to the civil unrest in the District of Columbia," the branch said in a statement. "All Guardsmen who are suspected to be at high risk of infection or have tested positive for COVID-19 during demobilization will not be released...until risk of infection or illness has passed."
  Ali Gostanian
  New York City will paint and rename streets in the city to honor the Black Lives Matter movement, Mayor Bill de Blasio  .
  “It’s time to do something officially representing this city to recognize the power of the fundamental idea that black lives matter, the idea that so much of American history has wrongly renounced but now must be affirmed,” de Blasio said during his  . 
  The proposal calls for the city to name streets and paint the words “Black Lives Matter” in a prominent area in each borough, with the Manhattan location being near City Hall. The mayor said he will work with the city council to determine the other four locations throughout the city. 
  The idea, de Blasio explained, came after a meeting he had Sunday with activists, including Gwen Carr, the mother of Eric Garner, who died in 2014 after being placed in an apparent chokehold by an NYPD officer. Washington, D.C. painted and renamed a section of street near the White House on Friday.
  “What will be clear, the street name and on the streets of our city, is that message that now this city must fully, fully deeply feel and this nation must as well, that black lives matter,” de Blasio said. 
  DEDICATION: Its 96 degrees right now.  My phone says if you factor in humidity... it’s more like 106. Yet they wait. Just to see George. Several hours under a heat advisory, under the glare of a dangerous sun... just for a few moments. It means that much.      
  David K. Li
  George Floyd's family members, speaking at Tuesday's service, said they were grateful for well-wishers honoring their brother, uncle and nephew, often called "Perry," his middle name.
  "I would like to thank the whole world," aunt Kathleen McGee said. "But I just want to make this statement: The world knows George Floyd, I know Perry Jr."
  Floyd's niece told mourners she'll never forget her uncle's last words, "I can't breathe."
  "Hello my name is Brooke Williams, George Floyd’s niece — and I can breathe," Williams said. "As long as I’m breathing, justice will be served for Perry."
 