Republican Whip Steve Scalise of Louisiana will be the top Republican on the panel, joined by Reps. Jim Jordan of Ohio, Blaine Luetkemeyer of Missouri, Jackie Walorski of Indiana, and Mark Green of Tennessee.
  McCarthy had previously suggested Republicans might not participate in the committee, which Democrats voted to establish over GOP opposition.
  He also announced during his Thursday news conference that Republicans are forming a China task force that will investigate influence operations in the United States, intellectual property theft and the origins of the coronavirus.
  "China's coverup directly led to this crisis," he said.
  Asked by CNN about President Donald Trump's remarks that  evidence indicates the virus came from a lab , McCarthy told reporters there are "very concerning questions out there."  
  "There are real concerns, and we want to get to the bottom of it," he said. "That's one of the goals of this committee."
  CNN  reported earlier this week that intelligence shared among key US intelligence allies  indicates it is "highly unlikely" that the coronavirus outbreak was spread as a result of an accident in a laboratory but rather originated in a Chinese market, according to two Western officials who cited an intelligence assessment that appears to contradict claims by Trump and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.
  House Foreign Affairs ranking Republican, Rep. Michael McCaul of Texas, will lead the task force, McCarthy announced.  
  Democrats are not on the panel, although McCarthy said he invites them to join. The task force will put together a report on its findings with legislative recommendations by October, he said.
  The California Republican also reiterated that he would like to see the House return to the Capitol, beginning with key committees to work on legislation like the National Defense Authorization Act.
  "I believe Congress is essential, and just like essential workers in our communities, it's time that we get back to work," he said. He also told reporters he continues to hold "real concerns" about proxy voting, the plan Democratic leaders have put forward for remote work.
  Asked about potential provisions for  another round of coronavirus relief legislation , McCarthy demurred, saying Congress should see how the funds it has already passed pan out. He said any additional legislation should be crafted by committees, in hearings and markups.
  "Before we look at any new package, I think we should make sure we implement the $3 trillion we just passed," he said. He added he is open to more state and local funding, but he wants to ensure money is specifically for coronavirus and that it gets to the cities and counties that need it.
 