The days are quickly counting down for thousands of pilots, flight attendants, gate agents and other airline workers who face the prospect of being laid off at the end of the month if Congress doesn't come through with a new stimulus agreement.
  "Without additional federal aid, U.S. airlines will be forced to make very difficult business decisions including furloughs and service reductions," wrote Carter Yang, spokesman for the airlines' chief industry organization, Airlines for America, in a note to USA TODAY.
  Why the urgency? The Department of Transportation  barred airlines that accepted stimulus money from laying off employees until at least Oct. 1 , when $25 billion in payroll support protection money from the CARES Act expires.
  On Thursday,  the Senate failed to reach the 60-vote minimum  needed to pass a slimmed-down, $300 billion GOP coronavirus relief package that didn't allocate any aid for the airline industry. That leaves open the chance that airline funds could be included in a compromise measure with the House.
  More: Airline mask requirements: Check the policies for 11 US carriers 
  Democrats have said they want  the next stimulus package to be the size  of the original  $2 trillion Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act  passed in March. 
  A second round of financial aid for airlines – on top of the  $50  billion they received from the CARES Act in March  – has some GOP support.  President Donald Trump backed the concept  during a news conference last month. And  16 Republican senators  sent a letter in support of the plan, it was widely reported.
  Change fees are history: Alaska, Delta, American and United all ditching change fees on US flights 
  In July,  United originally predicted that it would cut as many as 36,000 positions , about a third of its total workforce,  before revising that number to 16,000 earlier this month .
  The pilots’ union at United Airlines announced Wednesday it has  reached an agreement with the carrier to prevent the furlough of nearly 3,000 pilots  when a federal prohibition on job cuts ends Oct. 1. The Air Line Pilots Association notified members about the deal, which would need to be ratified by pilots.
  United pilots off the hook?    Union says it has a deal with airline to prevent nearly 3,000 pilot furloughs 
  American said late last month  that it will need a reduction of 17,500, an improvement over the 25,000 it originally predicted in July but still a staggering number.
  "It's clear that travel jobs, which were hit by far the hardest of any sector, won't recover on their own," said Tori Barnes, an executive vice president for the U.S. Travel Association, in a statement Wednesday.
  Airline capacity has slowly picked up over the summer, but not quickly enough. From an April low of less than 10%, it had risen to 51% by last week, according to the industry trade group  Airlines for America . That's still considerably lower than the 85% capacity rate of 2019. And the association said it doesn't expect to see those kinds of numbers again until 2024.
  More: Another stimulus check may not come until October, if it comes at all 
  Against that backdrop, it's looking grim for airline employees.
  "Where will we go? The unemployment line," said Sara Nelson, president of the Association of Flight Attendants,  in a statement.  "The situation in the airline industry is not better than July when furlough notices went out. It's actually worse."
  Contributing: Associated Press 
 