This briefing has ended. Read live coronavirus updates  here .
  Vice President  Mike Pence  encouraged governors on Monday to adopt the administration’s claim that increased testing helps account for the new coronavirus outbreak reports, even though evidence has shown that the explanation is misleading.
  On a call with the governors, audio of which was obtained by The New York Times, Mr. Pence urged them “to continue to explain to your citizens the magnitude of the increase in testing” in addressing the new outbreaks.
  And he asked them to “encourage people with the news that we’re safely reopening the country.”
  In fact,  seven-day averages  in several states with outbreaks have increased since May 31, and in at least 14 states, the positive case rate is increasing faster than the increase in the average number of tests, according to an analysis of data collected by The New York Times.
  The vice president played down the overall size of the outbreaks, stressing that some states were seeing what he called “intermittent” spikes of the virus.
  And he was dismissive of the idea that community spread is a culprit, focusing instead on specific outbreak locations, like nursing homes. In fact, as cases rise, officials in several states have specifically pointed a finger at community spread.
  “The president often talks about embers,” Mr. Pence said, adding that “despite a mass increase in testing, we are still averaging roughly 20,000 cases a day, which is significantly down from six weeks ago.”
  Mr. Pence then instructed Alex M. Azar II, the secretary of Health and Human Services, to address the problem in a “constructive” way. Mr. Azar said that localized outbreaks at meat packing plants and nursing homes would be a continuing focus.
  Dr. Deborah L. Birx, who is coordinating the administration’s response, said that hospitalization rates for coronavirus infections had generally been declining across the United States, though some states had seen an uptick.
  She said that areas of the country where protests have occurred not yet seen a rise in cases, though she said coronavirus data had begun to show “early upticks” in Minneapolis.
  State governments are facing some of their biggest budget shortfalls on record, a report warned Monday, with plummeting tax collections    forcing states and localities to furlough or lay off more than 1.5 million workers over the past three months and to weigh far deeper cuts in areas including education in the coming months.
  With the pandemic and stay-at-home orders forcing precipitous drops in income tax, sales tax and even gas tax revenues, states are facing a projected shortfall of $615 billion over the next three years, according to  a projection  released Monday by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a left-leaning research organization.
  Many states are weighing steep cuts as they rush to draft budgets for the next fiscal year, which starts  next month  in many states.
  “The Covid-19 pandemic has caused state revenues to fall off the table, creating a fiscal crisis unlike anything states have faced since the Great Depression of the 1930s,” Michael Leachman, the center’s vice president for state fiscal policy,  said in testimony  before the House Committee on Education and Labor.
  Without federal aid, he said, furloughed workers will most likely not get their jobs back, and more public sector workers will be laid off.
  In New York State alone, tax receipts last month were down $766.9 million, or nearly 20 percent, from the previous year,  according to the monthly state cash  report released Monday by the state comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli.
  The Democratic-controlled U.S. House supports giving federal aid to help state and local governments balance their budgets as part of the next round of stimulus, but the idea has run into opposition form the Republican-controlled Senate and President Trump. They are loath to bail out Democratic-led states, accusing them of mishandling their finances and pensions.
  Mr. Leachman said in his testimony that states across the country were facing shortfalls, and that there was “nothing partisan about the virus.”
  Last month the largest bipartisan groups representing  governors, mayors, cities and states warned  that “without federal assistance, states, territories and local governments will be forced to make drastic cuts to the programs Americans depend on to provide economic security, educational opportunities and public safety, and the national economic recovery will be dramatically hampered.”
  Gov. Larry Hogan of Maryland, a Republican who has publicly criticized the administration’s early response to the virus, told Vice President Mike Pence on a call with governors that there was an “urgent need” to have the administration and members of Congress working together on another coronavirus relief bill.
  “States are going to be faced with laying off tens of thousands of state workers,” Mr. Hogan said, adding that many governors were finalizing state budgets at the end of June.
  Bars and restaurants that only recently reopened around the country are being forced to close their doors again, or at least suspend dining in, amid new infections.
  In some cases, the closings came after employees tested positive. In others, it was the patrons who were found to be infected.
  In Phoenix, where cases have been on the rise, the Porch Arcadia, which reopened May 11,  announced  that it was temporarily closing again so it could test all of its workers and do a “thorough deep cleaning and sanitizing of the entire building.” It said someone who had been in the restaurant had tested positive. Another restaurant, Chelsea’s Kitchen,  said on Facebook  that it had suspended dine-in service and moved back to curbside takeout and delivery after “a person close to the restaurant” tested positive.
  In Texas, some San Antonio bars decided to shut down, among them Hills & Dales Icehouse, which cited “the recent surge of positive Covid-19 cases.” It  said  it would remain closed until it felt safe for workers and patrons to return.
  A number of Florida bars — including in Naples, St. Petersburg and the Orlando suburbs — told customers that they were voluntarily shutting down their dining rooms because employees had tested positive.    St. Petersburg’s mayor, Rick Kriseman,  urged other businesses to also close  if any of their workers get sick.
  On Saturday, Florida reported  its highest single-day number  of cases since the outbreak began: 2,581.
  In other parts of the country, officials have been talking about pausing their reopening plans amid warnings that the virus is  here for long haul.  Here’s a look at what’s happening:
  After  declaring the coronavirus pandemic eradicated  last week, New Zealand authorities on Tuesday confirmed two new cases of Covid-19 in travelers who had returned from Britain, ending the country’s 24-day streak without new infections.
  The two cases were confirmed in female relatives in their 30s and 40s, who tested positive after being released early from a state-managed quarantine, the country’s director-general of health, Dr. Ashley Bloomfield, told reporters at a news conference.
  “A new case is something we hoped we wouldn’t get, but it’s also something we have expected and planned for,” he said, adding that New Zealand had maintained its contact tracing and testing capabilities to respond to new cases.
  The two women arrived in Wellington via Doha, the capital of Qatar, and Brisbane, Australia, on June 7, but were granted a compassionate exemption to travel by private vehicle to Auckland on June 13 after a close family member died.
  Dr. Bloomfield said he did not believe the women had infected anyone else in New Zealand, given they had not used any public facilities during their journey, and had close contact with only a single family member since arriving in Wellington.
  “I won’t go into any details, but there is a lot of public roadside between here and Auckland,” he said. “They didn’t put anyone at risk.”
  New Zealand is among  a handful of countries  that have largely kept the coronavirus at bay. No one in New Zealand is currently hospitalized with the virus, and life there has largely returned to pre-pandemic norms, with retail, hospitality, public transport and travel all operating as usual.
  But the two new cases were a reminder that New Zealanders needed to remain vigilant against the spread of the virus, which continues to be transmitted globally at high rates, Dr. Bloomfield said.
  “We cannot afford to be complacent,” he said.
  For months, Beijing residents learned to look warily on any visitors who might bring the coronavirus into the city and spread infections. Now, they are potential targets of monitoring, quarantine and suspicion across China after a burst of more than 100 infections in the national capital since last week.
  Dozens of cities and provinces across China have in recent days stepped up monitoring and quarantine measures for people from Beijing after the government confirmed a flare-up of new cases that  was traced to the Xinfadi wholesale food market  in the city’s south. At least one city — Daqing, an oil-producing city in the northeast — more or less signaled that all people from Beijing should stay away.
  “In view of the rapidly escalating epidemic control developments in Beijing, from today individuals coming from Beijing to Daqing must undergo 21 days of isolation,” the city authorities announced on Monday, according to  The Beijing News . The Daqing health authorities also “recommended that residents do not venture to Beijing for now unless it is essential.”
  Harbin, another city in northeast China,  ordered that all arrivals from Beijing had to go into “centralized quarantine” — which usually means confinement to an assigned hotel or dormitory room — while they undergo two nucleic acid tests to check if they have the virus.
  Beijing has reinstated some wider controls in an effort to stifle the spread of the virus. The city  postponed a scheduled return  to classrooms by some elementary students. Taxis and ride services have been ordered not to leave the city. Restaurants have banned banquets. The lockdown of residents — preventing them from leaving their housing compounds or receiving visitors — expanded on Tuesday to seven neighborhoods  in the west of Beijing , where an infected person had visited a market.
  Even so, the quarantine steps and general anxiety about the outbreak in Beijing have underscored how even limited outbursts of new infections could frustrate efforts to return to normal in China and other countries.
  Xi Jinping, China’s top leader, has made defending Beijing from mass infections a priority. City officials are under particular pressure to extinguish the new outbreak quickly.
  “Make containing the outbreak the most important and urgent task for now,” Cai Qi, the Communist Party secretary of Beijing, and a protégé of Mr. Xi, said at a  meeting of officials on Monday . “Adopt the most resolute, decisive and strictest measures.”
  More than half of all four-year colleges and universities in the U.S. will not require applicants to submit SAT or ACT scores for admissions this fall, an anti-testing group said Monday, a major shift in the way colleges select students that has been accelerated by the pandemic.
  The group, FairTest, said that 1,240 of the 2,330 institutions that granted bachelor’s degrees in the 2018-19 academic year have now made the tests optional. The total includes nearly 200 colleges and universities that have at least temporarily dropped the testing requirement since the spring, when the outbreak forced the cancellation of many test dates.
  The tests have long been criticized as being unfair to low-income, black and Hispanic students, leading a growing number of colleges to make testing optional. Supporters say they provide a uniform way of judging students across schools.
  Some of the most selective schools in the country have announced that they are making the SAT and the ACT optional for at least the coming application cycle, including Brown University, Carnegie Mellon, Columbia and Cornell, according to FairTest.
  Bob Schaeffer, the president of FairTest, said that if the past was any guide, some schools    would not restore the testing requirement when the pandemic was over. 
  And on Monday night, Harvard said that because of disruptions caused by the pandemic, it will not require applicants to submit SAT or ACT scores for the next admissions cycle, putting the imprimatur of perhaps the country’s most prestigious university on the building move away from the use of standardized tests in admissions.
  “We understand that the COVID-19 pandemic has created insurmountable challenges in scheduling tests for all students, particularly those from modest economic backgrounds, and we believe this temporary change addresses these challenges,” Harvard said in the  announcement , posted on its website.
  “Students who do not submit standardized testing this coming year will not be disadvantaged in the application process. Their applications will be considered on the basis of what they have presented, and they are encouraged to send whatever materials they believe would convey their accomplishments in secondary school and their promise for the future.”
  With the addition of Harvard, 1,241 of the 2,330 institutions that granted bachelor’s degrees during the 2018-19 academic year have now made the tests optional, according to FairTest, an anti-testing organization that is keeping track of the movement. That number includes nearly 200 colleges and universities that — like Harvard — have at least temporarily dropped the testing requirement since the virus began spreading in the spring. Many spring test dates were canceled because of the pandemic, making it difficult for students to take the test and submit their scores.
  Harvard has long said that standardized tests are only a small part of what the admissions office considers. The announcement said that students also will not be penalized for having pass/fail grades or limited extracurricular activities because of the virus. The tests will be optional for those applying to Harvard’s Class of 2025; regular applicants must submit by Jan. 21, 2021.
  But some test experts are suggesting that if the change works out, universities may choose to continue the practice once the pandemic has receded.
  The Food and Drug Administration said Monday that it was  revoking emergency authorization  of two malaria drugs to treat Covid-19, saying that they are “unlikely to be effective.”
  The drugs,  hydroxychloroquine and a related drug, chloroquine , were heavily promoted by President Trump after a handful of small, poorly controlled studies showed that they could work in treating the disease.
  Mr. Trump even took hydroxychloroquine after he was exposed to two people who had tested positive for the coronavirus. The agency said that after reviewing some data, it had determined that the drugs, particularly hydroxychloroquine, did not demonstrate benefits that outweighed their risks. Earlier this year, the F.D.A. issued a warning that the drugs could cause alarming heart arrhythmias.
  In March, the F.D.A. authorized stockpiles of the drugs to be used in hospitals to treat patients with the virus. But in a letter Monday revoking the authorization, the agency said that further studies have shown that the two drugs were unlikely to be effective in stopping the virus, and that current national treatment guidelines don’t recommend using them outside of clinical trials.
  According to the letter, written by Denise M. Hinton, the F.D.A.’s chief scientist, the request to revoke the authorization came from the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, a unit of the Department of Health and Human Services that is in charge of supplying treatments in public health emergencies.
  Members of Congress  have questioned  increases in the F.D.A.’s granting of emergency use authorizations during the pandemic for certain drugs as potential treatments. They have also questioned authorizations for antibody and diagnostic tests whose data had not been thoroughly vetted before approval, and for certain types of masks and other devices. Some Democratic lawmakers have criticized the Trump administration for pressuring the agency into issuing too many emergency approvals.
  For months, many African nations managed to stave off, or at least slow, the spread of the coronavirus, partly by closing borders early and banning public gatherings.
  The virus is now racing across Africa, aided by public health measures that are being applied haphazardly — or not at all.
  At a Central African Republic border town this week, dozens of truck drivers dutifully pulled over by a tent to be tested for the virus before they could proceed.
  In the meantime, ordinary people drifted back and forth across the border, often unchecked.
  When the authorities did pull over a bus for a spot check as it neared the capital, one passenger who admitted to feeling “malarial” was pulled off. He tested positive for the virus and was sent to a hospital, but the conditions were so bad there that he ran away, he said later. 
  “They are still looking for me,” he said, “and I think that they would like to punish me. But they will never get me.”
  Last week the World Health Organization said Africa’s confirmed cases had  doubled in 18 days  to reach 200,000.
  “Africa needs to intensify its efforts to slow the spread of the pandemic,” experts from the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said in  an article published in the journal Nature .
  But with what the authors said was a “catastrophic shortage” of health professionals and medical supplies, that will not be easy. Even basic safety measures are sometimes being ignored.
  In just six months, nearly 8 million people worldwide have been stricken with confirmed cases of Covid-19, and at least 434,000 have died. But those deaths have not been distributed evenly; among the most vulnerable are people with underlying health conditions, such as diabetes and diseases that affect the heart and lungs. According to a new modeling study, roughly 1.7 billion people around the world — 22 percent of the global population — fall into that category.
  That estimate,  published today  in The Lancet Global Health, excluded healthy older individuals without underlying health conditions, a group also known to be at risk because of their age. It also did not take into account risk factors like poverty and obesity, which can influence a person’s susceptibility to disease and access to treatment.
  But such data could help health officials focus containment efforts on people vulnerable to the virus’s most dangerous effects and, perhaps, eventually prioritize them for vaccination, said Andrew Clark of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, the study’s first author. Since the early days of the pandemic, researchers have known that chronic conditions can exacerbate disease. Now, there’s a better “understanding of the numbers involved,” Dr. Clark said.
  The study also estimated that about 4 percent of the world’s population, around 349 million people, would require hospitalization if they became infected. That number includes patients without underlying medical conditions, such as healthy, older adults; and the risk of hospitalization increases with age.
  The next  Oscars ceremony  will be pushed back to April 25 from Feb. 28 because of the pandemic, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences said on Monday.
  With the virus shuttering movie theaters across the country for months, and forcing studios to delay openings, the Academy said it would extend the eligibility window for films to Feb. 28 instead of Dec. 31. The organization did not say whether the April 25 show would involve the usual red carpet and live audience.
  The goal was “to provide the flexibility filmmakers need to finish and release their films without being penalized for something beyond anyone’s control,” the academy’s president and the organization’s chief executive said in a statement. “For over a century, movies have played an important role in comforting, inspiring and entertaining us during the darkest of times. They certainly have this year.”
  The academy said that its Governors Awards, at which lifetime achievement Oscars are handed out and which is not televised, would not take place this fall as planned. More information about the ceremony and the honorees would be provided at a later date. The academy also pushed back the opening for its  long-delayed museum  in Los Angeles; it will now open on April 30.
  For its part, the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences said on Monday that its Creative Arts Emmys, at which the majority of Emmys are awarded annually, would be held virtually in September. The main Emmys telecast remains scheduled for Sept. 20 on ABC. The television academy said that discussions are underway “regarding the format.”
  Elsewhere, in the world of sports:
  House Democrats announced on Monday that they were launching an investigation into how the Trump administration has allocated roughly $660 billion in small business loans as part of the stimulus law enacted to cushion the economic blow of the pandemic.
  The seven Democrats on a special oversight committee created to scrutinize how the administration is spending pandemic relief money sent letters to the Treasury Department and the Small Business Administration — the two agencies that administer the Paycheck Protection Program — as well as eight large banks, asking for documents and information about how funds were distributed and which businesses received them.
  “The administration should release the names of all PPP borrowers — as the S.B.A. routinely does for similar loan programs,” the lawmakers wrote in the letters which went to banks including JP Morgan Chase, Bank of America, Wells Fargo and Citibank. “Contrary to Secretary Mnuchin’s recent testimony, there is nothing ‘proprietary’ or ‘confidential’ about a business receiving millions of dollars appropriated by Congress, and taxpayers deserve to know how their money is being spent.”
  Their action came days after Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin told a Senate committee that information about who was receiving the loan money was “proprietary” and not subject to public release.
  Facing a backlash for the remarks, Mr. Mnuchin said on Monday that he would look for a way to allow for more oversight of where the government-backed loan money was going. The lack of transparency threatened to derail future economic relief efforts and was quickly becoming a political problem for the White House, as Democrats and Republicans sought additional information about the loans.
  “I will be having discussions with the Senate Small Business Committee and others on a bipartisan basis to strike the appropriate balance for proper oversight of PPP loans and appropriate protection of small business information,” Mr. Mnuchin  said on Twitter  on Monday.
  Not long after, House Democrats announced their inquiry. They said they were concerned that a “two-tiered system” for processing applications “may have diverted PPP funds intended for vulnerable small business owners in underserved and rural markets.”
  As the number of virus cases in South Carolina has risen steeply in recent days, Representative  Tom Rice , a Republican, announced Monday that he had contracted the virus, becoming the latest member of Congress known to become infected.
  South Carolina — whose governor was among the last to issue a stay-at-home order when the virus first struck and was also among the first to begin opening up his state — has seen a sharp rise in cases in recent days. The state allowed some retail stores to begin reopening  with social distancing back on April 20,  and has continued to allow more businesses to reopen, with Gov. Henry McMaster giving the green light Friday to  bowling alleys. 
  The state recorded its highest number of new cases yet in one day on Sunday, according to  a New York Times database : 840. The tally made South Carolina the state with the seventh-highest number of new cases in the country that day, with more new cases reported there than in New York. And while some states make incomplete reports on weekends, the trajectory in South Carolina has been going up for days.
  The state is now logging almost six times as many cases each day as it did when it began reopening. The week leading up to April 20, when it began reopening, it was averaging 142 new cases a day. All told there have been at least 18,795 cases of the virus in South Carolina, according to the database, and as of Monday morning at least 600 people had died.
  In his statement on allowing bowling alleys to reopen, Mr. McMaster said Friday: “Businesses simply can’t be closed indefinitely, but they can operate in a safe way with our collective knowledge of the virus.”
  Mr. Rice  announced on Facebook  that he and his wife and one of their sons had contracted the virus and that they were all improving, including his son, who had the most severe case.
  “I was lucky, and it was not bad for me,” Mr. Rice wrote. “I had a low fever and a mild cough. It was gone by Thursday. I never stopped eating or drinking or working or moving. The only bad thing is I have completely lost sense of taste and smell. CAN’T TASTE BACON!!!”
  The fitness chain 24 Hour Fitness filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on Monday, after the coronavirus pandemic forced its clubs to shut for nearly two months.
  “Put simply, the Covid-19 pandemic upended the debtors’ operating model, leaving the debtors without a source of revenue to fund their operations,” the filing stated.
  The national gym chain said in its bankruptcy filing that it had permanently closed 100 locations across 14 states. But the chain is expected to re-emerge: It has secured $250 million in funding to reopen some of its clubs, and it expects a majority of its remaining 300 locations to be open by the end of June.
  The pandemic has been particularly devastating to the gym industry. Also on Monday, Town Sports International said that it was considering bankruptcy because of revenue losses as a result of the shutdown. The company, which owns about 200 gyms including the New York Sports Club and Boston Sports Club chains, said in a regulatory filing that the “scope and duration of the interruption to our operations has substantially reduced our cash flow.”
  Pakistanis stricken by the virus are being turned away from hospitals that have simply closed their gates and put up signs reading “full house.” Doctors and nurses are falling ill at alarming rates — and are also coming under physical assault from desperate and angry families.
  When Pakistan’s government lifted its lockdown on May 9, it warned that the already impoverished country could no longer withstand the shutdown needed to mitigate the pandemic’s spread. But now left unshackled,  the virus is meting out devastation in other ways , and panic is rising.
  Before reopening, Pakistan had recorded about 25,000 infections. A month later, the country recorded an additional 100,000 cases — almost certainly an undercount. At least 2,729 people have died, according to  a Times database .
  Pakistan is now reporting so many new cases that it is among the W.H.O.’s top 10 countries where the virus is on the rise. The W.H.O. wrote a  letter criticizing the government’s  efforts on June 7 and recommended that a lockdown be reimposed, stating that Pakistan did not meet any of the criteria needed to lift it.
  Compounding the dire situation, medical workers across Pakistan are being assaulted on a near-daily basis for not being able to admit patients or having to tell families that their loved ones had died.
  “Our hospitals are completely exhausted,” said one doctor, who asked for his name to be withheld because he is a government employee.
  Medical professionals now expect the virus to peak in July or August and infect up to 900,000, adding further strain to an already shaky health care system that some warn may collapse.
  But government officials have ruled out the possibility of a further lockdown and dismissed the W.H.O. recommendations.
  Europe’s internal borders, closed three months ago in a frenzy of panicked uncertainty, are opening again. In the delicate global stutter-step to restart stalled economies and save whole industries from financial ruin, the return of free and unfettered movement of people across the continent is a significant moment — one fraught with risk as new infections surge around the world.
  France, Germany and Switzerland are among the nations that lifted restrictions on Monday for all arrivals from within the European Union and nations that fall under the border-free Schengen zone. They joined Spain, Italy, Belgium and other countries in trying to move to a new phase in the struggle to balance public health imperatives, economic realities and shifting public attitudes.
  In order to facilitate navigating between different national rules, the European Commission launched “ Re-open EU,”  a site dedicated to information on travel to and within the European countries, including quarantine rules and information on tourist facilities.
  For Europe, lifting internal border restrictions has important financial implications and deep symbolic resonance. Open borders — free from checkpoints and armed soldiers checking papers — have long been at the heart of the European project.
  Here are other international developments:
  In the United States, Father’s Day is a week away, and July 4 is also drawing near. Here are some tips on celebrating safely with family and friends.
 