WASHINGTON – Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin outlined a variety of potential proposals to Senate Republicans Tuesday as part of a legislative package to help Americans and industries that are reeling from the coronavirus.
  The administration proposed an initial $250 billion could be sent to Americans as early as the end of April if it can muster congressional approval, according to senators in attendance at the lunch meeting. 
  Sen. John Thune, the Republican majority whip, noted that getting cash assistance to Americans is something that has historically taken some time, but “I think there are ways now electronically that you can process things more quickly.” The South Dakota Republican said while an exact date remains up in the air, cash assistance could potentially start to go out in late April. “I think that'd be a good start date.”
  The proposal has fairly widespread support from Senate Republicans, who say it will offer immediate assistance to Americans impacted by the virus. Some lawmakers have varying ideas about how the proposal should work, including who should receive the payments and how much each American should get. 
  The idea was originally raised by Sen. Mitt Romney, R-Utah, who proposed sending $1,000 to each U.S. adult. Earlier Tuesday, Mnuchin noted the administration was eyeing the idea. "We're looking at sending checks to Americans immediately," he said. 
  – Christal Hayes 
  Several technicians at Chicago’s Midway airport air traffic control tower have tested positive for coronavirus, which prompted the union to ask the Federal Aviation Administration to close the facility until it can be disinfected.
  The National Air Traffic Controllers Association asked to review the cleaning products and materials, to ensure the efficacy of the cleaning. The union also asked FAA to coordinate with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to test all workers at the Midway tower for the virus.
  “We are encouraged that the FAA is pursuing the rapid testing of all personnel at MDW Tower,” the union said in a statement.
  Midway is the 31st largest airport in the country, with about 11 million passengers in 2017, according to the Bureau of Transportation Statistics. For comparison, across town, O’Hare International Airport is the third-busiest airport in the country with nearly 39 million passengers.
  – Bart Jansen 
  The hotel industry is  seeking a total of $250 billion in bailouts  for owners, employees and suppliers, saying devastated room bookings due to the coronavirus are resulting in closures and mass layoffs.
  Hotel executives said they detailed the devastation that the travel pullback is having on their industry in a meeting Tuesday with the Trump administration.
  The industry is hoping for $150 billion to allow hotel owners to continue to make their loan payments and to support employees who are being laid off. Another $100 billion would go to suppliers, from recreation providers to retailers.
  The contraction in travel due to the coronavirus "already has had a more severe impact on the hotel industry than 9/11 and the 2008 recession combined," said Chip Rogers, CEO of the American Hotel & Lodging Association in a call with reporters.
  - Chris Woodyard 
  Defense Secretary Mark Esper said Tuesday the Pentagon will supply civilian officials with 2,000 ventilators, 5 million respirator masks and 14 military laboratories to test for coronavirus.
  Coming out of a closed-door meeting with Republican senators, Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin told reporters the proposal "on the table" would put "a trillion dollars into the economy" to help combat the impacts of coronavirus.
  "That is on top of the 300 billion from the IRS deferrals. Now let me say this is a combination of loans, this is a combination of direct checks to individuals, this is a combination of creating liquidity for small businesses. So we look forward to working with the Senate," he said. 
  Speaking to reporters at a press conference, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said they would vote on the House bill as soon as the Senate "can get permission to vote." 
  "We're going to go on and vote as soon as the Senate can get permission to vote on the bill that came over from the House and send it to the president for signature," he said. 
  Addressing concerns of some Republican senators who had wanted the bill amended before they could pass it, he said, "My counsel is to gag and vote for it anyway" and address issues in later legislation. 
  Republican senators seemed willing to work to get the package done as soon as possible. 
  "We're not going to leave this building until we get the job done," Sen. Mitt Romney, R-Utah, told reporters.
  – Nicholas Wu 
  Secretary of State Mike Pompeo used the term “Wuhan virus” five times in the span of a 16-minute news conference Tuesday, as he spoke with reporters about the State Department’s response to the coronavirus pandemic.
  Pompeo’s use of the term has become a growing source of controversy, as public health experts and some Democratic lawmakers warn it will stigmatize people of Asian descent and is counterproductive during a worldwide public health crisis.
  But Pompeo has refused to back down, and on Tuesday he blasted the Chinese government for what he called a “disinformation campaign” about the origin of the disease outbreak. He was likely referring to suggestions by some Chinese officials that the U.S. military may have had a role in bringing the virus to China.
  “We know that the first government to be aware of the Wuhan virus was the Chinese government that imposes a special responsibility to raise the flag to say, ‘We have a problem, this is different and unique and presents risk,’” Pompeo said. “And it took an awful long time for the world to become aware of this risk that was sitting there residing inside of China.”
  Asian-American members of Congress have called on Americans not to promote "xenophobia" and "rumors" while combating the coronavirus outbreak.
  Lawmakers, health experts, and community advocates  assembled for a press conference in February  to emphasize that the virus, which has been named COVID-19, was spread by exposure to infected individuals, not ethnicity. 
  Mitch Wolfe, chief medical officer at the CDC, told reporters, "stigma is the enemy of public health." 
  "Ethnicity is not a risk factor," Wolfe added. 
  – Deirdre Shesgreen and Nicholas Wu 
  President Donald Trump downplayed reports Tuesday saying he's struck a more urgent tone as the White House seeks to get a handle on the coronavirus pandemic, arguing his recent remarks represented the “next logical step” in that response.
  Trump, who initially talked down the potential impact of the virus – at one point calling concern about the virus a "hoax" – has taken a strikingly different approach in recent days. On Monday, he suggested the nation “could be” heading toward a recession because of the virus as he outlined far more stringent social distancing guidelines for the nation.
  The president’s remarks on Monday came during a massive market slide and a new report from European researchers that predicted 2.2 million Americans could have been killed by the virus without the steps the U.S. is taking. Trump said neither of those factors influenced his tone earlier in the week.
  Much of the president's more cautious approach continued for a second day Tuesday, as he briefed reporters from prepared remarks at the White House. Asked about the shift, Trump denied that a shift even existed. 
  “I have seen that, where people actually liked it,” Trump said of reports about his tone. “But I didn't feel different. I've always known this is a real – this is a pandemic ... I felt it was a pandemic long before it was called a pandemic.”
  – John Fritze and David Jackson 
  Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said Tuesday that "a couple" of the agency's employees have tested positive for COVID-19. During a news conference at the State Department, he said those employees are following the CDC guidance, as is the rest of the agency.
  Asked how he is feeling, he said, "I feel great."
  – Deirdre Shesgreen 
  As Trump calls on Congress to go "big" on a stimulus to offset the economic impact of the coronavirus, GOP senators are weighing options for how to get that done. One option is to approve an already passed House bill that focuses on ensuring paid sick leave for workers and then begin work right away on a larger package. Some Republicans are pushing the idea of melding the elements of the House package with bigger steps such as sending checks to American households.
  For the moment, many Senate Republicans are setting aside worries about the deficit impact of the coronavirus package, which could reach $1 trillion or more.
  “Well, I'm about as conservative fiscally as you can be,” said Sen. John Kennedy, R-La. “This would not be the first preference of anybody. But then it wasn't the first preference of anybody that some of our people got sick. So we've got to deal with it and this is not a time to be cheap.”
  – Christal Hayes  
  A day after praising the press for being "very fair," President Donald Trump again lashed out against the media Tuesday over coverage of his response to the coronavirus.
  “The only thing we haven’t done well is to get good press," Trump told reporters, complaining in particular about coverage of his phone conference Monday with a group of governors. "We've done a fantastic job, but it hasn't been appreciated."
  The statement came just a day after Trump praised the press while answering a question on whether foreign governments are spreading disinformation about the coronavirus to U.S. audiences.
  "I think a lot of the media actually has been very fair," Trump said. "I think people are pulling together on this. I really think the media has been very fair."
  – David Jackson 
  Public health labs have reported 31,878 conducted coronavirus tests while clinical labs have reported 27,000 conducted tests, according to Adm. Brett Giroir, assistant secretary of health at the Department of Health and Human Services. Of those 27,000, some 8,000 were reported Monday and officials are still awaiting figures for tests done by hospital labs, he said. 
  South Korea has tested 250,000 people among a population of 51 million, compared with the nearly 60,000 conducted tests among the U.S. population of 372.2 million. Italy has tested 73,000 people among a population of 60.5 million. 
  Deborah Birx, the White House coordinator for the coronavirus response, said the U.S. was slower on the testing rollout because it was focused on "quality," adding that tests used in other countries prompted inaccurate results. 
  "We were adamant about having a high quality test," she told reporters Tuesday. "In coming months you will see other tests around the world are less effective and produce false positives."
  She said she believes the numbers in testing will change this week, pointing out that high-speed tests were only approved last Thursday and Friday.
  – Courtney Subramanian and Michael Collins 
  Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, said there are discussions underway about the possibility of voting remotely, but noted it would take a rules change in the Senate to make such a proposal possible, something that would need a supermajority – 67 votes – for approval.
  “The Senate is a pretty tradition-bound place,” he said. “But these are extraordinary circumstances.”
  – Christal Hayes 
  President Donald Trump and Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin say they are exploring the idea of legislation that would include sending checks to Americans to help them manage through the economic impact of coronavirus disruptions.
  "We're looking at sending checks to Americans immediately," Mnuchin said at a news conference Tuesday by the administration's coronavirus task force.
  Trump added he believed lawmakers and the administration could come together for a "big, bold" package. Mnuchin has been meeting with Democrats and Republicans as the White House and Congress attempt to pass more legislation aimed at addressing the impacts of coronavirus.
  Coronavirus: What kind of stimulus should Congress pass to rescue the economy? 
  Trump said "We’re going big" on the stimulus plan, saying it will be a "big infusion."
  "We want to go big, go solid," he said. "We don’t want airlines going out of business or people losing their jobs and not having money to live."
  Other news from the briefing:
  President Donald Trump said Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has been meeting with Democratic and Republican lawmakers as the White House and Congress negotiate an $850 billion stimulus package to combat impacts of the coronavirus.
  “There’s tremendous spirit – I can say that for Republicans and Democrats," Trump said of stimulus talks.
  Trump has pitched an $850 billion economic stimulus package while the Senate considers a House-passed bill aimed at providing paid sick leave, among other initiatives.
  Trump spoke this morning with restaurant executives, who promised to discourage customers from dining out by encouraging them to use drive-thru, pickup and delivery options to help curb the spread of coronavirus.
  U.S. stocks stabilized Tuesday after the Trump administration said it planned financial support for an airline industry devastated by a drop in travel caused by the coronavirus pandemic.
  The gains follow the market's worst sell-off in more than three decades on Monday.
  By late morning Tuesday, the Dow Jones industrial average was up more than 500 points. The Standard & Poor’s 500 rose 4%. Both averages had their worst day since the “Black Monday” stock market crash of 1987 the prior day.
  At a Tuesday news conference updating reporters on the progress of the coronavirus task force, President Donald Trump announced the expansion of telehealth services for those on Medicare, noting that patients can access any doctor "at no additional cost." The president also said states will not enforce HIPPA penalties as they encourage "everyone to maximize the use of telehealth." 
  What else Trump said: 
  "We’re going to win, and I think we’re going to win faster than people think, I hope," Trump told reporters. 
  - Courtney Subramanian and Michael Collins 
  President Donald Trump will ask Congress for a roughly $850 billion stimulus package to stem the blow to the economy from massive shutdowns related to the coronavirus, according to an administration official.
  An official said Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin is “asking Congress for a package today but we are not in a position to confirm the number at this time.” Another official said the number is “around $850 billion.”
  Senators later today will hear more about the next package and hope to get a precise dollar figure from Mnuchin at a Republican lunch at the U.S. Capitol. The package is expected to include $500 billion for a payroll tax holiday, $50 billion for airlines and $250 billion for small business loans, according to an administration analysis. 
  Trump has been pushing the idea of a payroll tax holiday to get cash into Americans' pockets. He said Monday that he believes help for the beleaguered airline industry is also crucial. Democrats and some Republicans are wary of the payroll tax idea, saying it won't help some of the people hit hardest by the disruptions, such as those who have lost their jobs or had their hours reduced. 
  Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-NY. has unveiled a proposal to spend $750 billion to address a number of sectors, including emergency child care for health care workers and first responders; medicine and food delivery systems for seniors, and assistance to keep public transportation running.
  – David Jackson, Christal Hayes and Ledge King 
  President Donald Trump on Tuesday spoke to more than a dozen restaurant executives who promised to help slow the spread of coronavirus by encouraging customers "to use drive-thru, pickup or delivery options" rather than dining out, according to a statement from White House spokesman Judd Deere. 
  Executives from Domino's, Papa Johns, Chick-fil-A, Subway, McDonald's, YUM! Brands and others committed to the "critical guideline and assured the President they fully intend to feed their communities through other innovative avenues." 
  Restaurants in Maryland, Indiana, New York, New Hampshire, Michigan, California, Massachusetts and other states have closed in an effort to stem the coronavirus outbreak that has led to the death of 85 Americans as of Tuesday morning. Some states have also opted to shutter gyms, movie theaters and casinos while Ohio called off its primary election Tuesday.
  The Trump administration issued fresh guidelines Monday that called for Americans to avoid social gatherings of more than 10 people and to limit discretionary travel. 
  – Courtney Subramanian 
  The federal government has been advising people not to meet in large groups as the coronavirus spreads. At least one senator believes Congress should follow that same advice.
  Illinois Sen. Dick Durbin, the second most powerful Democrat in the chamber, is calling for Capitol Hill to seriously consider voting remotely or at least holding committees by teleconference or video links that would allow the exchange of ideas without forcing lawmakers, their aides, police and other Capitol Hill staff to congregate and potentially spread the disease.
  “We have to think anew about the way the Senate does business,” he said on the Senate floor Tuesday morning. “If we’re telling people to do their work from home when possible – teleconferencing as opposed to being physically present - what are we doing to achieve the same thing?”
  Senate rules require a senator to be physically present. During a roll call vote, senators may vote from their desks or in the well of the chamber, but they must be present, so the clerk can record their vote.
  Durbin said he wants the Senate to create a formal task force to examine this practice. He said he’s already spoken to Sens. Amy Klobuchar, D-Minn., and Brian Schatz, D-Hawaii, about moving forward with the idea.
  “It’s time for the Senate to wake up to the 21st century,” Durbin said. “And to make sure we’re using technology that allows us to communicate with one another without any risk or danger to public health.”
  – Ledyard King 
  Speaking on the Senate floor, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said the Senate would not adjourn until another, larger coronavirus assistance package is passed. 
  "The Senate will not adjourn until we have passed significant and bold new steps above and beyond what the House has passed to help our strong nation and our strong underlying economy," he said. 
  McConnell said he wanted "more direct assistance" for workers and families, as well as steps to protect small businesses. Negotiations were ongoing over further legislation, he said. 
  – Nicholas Wu 
  A legislative response to  coronavirus  is now in the Senate's hands while officials and lawmakers work on a broader stimulus package. 
  Last night, the House of Representatives  passed  an amended version of the  bill , finally breaking a  procedural logjam . The bill would provide paid sick leave to millions of   American workers, bolster unemployment insurance and make coronavirus tests free. 
  It is expected to  pass  the Senate. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said on the Senate floor yesterday that senators were "eager to act quickly" to help combat the disease, which has been named COVID-19. 
  The bill would only be the "beginning" of the legislative response, McConnell said on the Senate floor, as lawmakers begin deliberations on another, even larger package to combat the coronavirus' effects on the economy as stocks tumble and business losses mount.
  The administration already is working with lawmakers on another relief bill to help cruise lines, airlines and other businesses that have been particularly hammered by the economic fallout from the virus. The airlines alone are seeking $50 billion in grants and loans to cover losses from coronavirus.
  Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin is expected to pitch lawmakers Tuesday on an $850-billion stimulus plan to boost the economy, according to reports from  The New York Times  and  The Washington Post . 
  Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-NY. has unveiled a proposal to spend $750 billion to address a number of sectors, including emergency child care for health care workers and first responders; medicine and food delivery systems for seniors, and assistance to keep public transportation running.
  And McConnell has his own list of broad priorities: more help for families dealing with financial challenges, aid to businesses hurt by the disruptions and shoring up the health care sector to prevent it from becoming overburdened.
  More: Coronavirus updates: US braces for possible recession as death toll hits 85; Ohio cancels primary 
  More: Ohio election called off by coronavirus 'health emergency' after on-again, off-again day of confusion 
  Some lawmakers have expressed concerns about moving quickly on legislation as the virus  disrupts travel  and the ability for Congress to reconvene and pass new legislation. 
  “I don't think we can assume that we can keep reconvening the Senate every week,,” Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., told reporters yesterday, citing the possible disruption of air travel and the risk of exposing members to the virus. “I don't think we can operate as if we can just bring the Senate and the House back together whenever we want.”
  More: With the U.S. economy in trouble, Congress seeks to put coronavirus relief bill on a faster track 
  The virus' impact on the nation's politics is already being felt. Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine  ordered polls closed  Monday, postponing the state's Democratic election scheduled for Tuesday. He cited a "health emergency" in making his decision. Arizona, Florida, and Illinois, the other three states holding primary elections today, have not announced any changes to their voting schedule. 
  The Coronavirus Task Force has a briefing scheduled at 11:30 a.m. EDT Tuesday morning to discuss the coronavirus. During yesterday's task force briefing, the Trump administration  rolled out new guidelines  for Americans to follow over the next 15 days, including: avoiding groups of over 10 people, attending school from home, and urging governors in states with community spread to close bars, food courts, gyms and restaurants. 
  More: As Trump acknowledges U.S. 'may be' headed for recession, House passes coronavirus aid package 
  President Donald Trump also has a busy day of meetings with business leaders to discuss the impacts of the coronavirus. Trump is scheduled to hold a phone meeting with restaurant executives, meet with tourism industry executives and participate in a phone conference with supply retailers and wholesalers.
 