Our live coverage has ended. You can follow more live updates  here .  There are 437 cases of coronavirus in the United States, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, as well as state and local governments.  There are 49 cases from repatriated citizens from Wuhan (3) and  the Diamond Princess  (46), according to the CDC.  Twenty-one, meanwhile, are from the Grand Princess cruise ship being held off California.   According to CNN Health’s tally of US cases that are detected and tested in the United States through US public health systems, 367 cases are in 30 states, bringing the total of coronavirus cases to 437. This includes presumptive positive cases that tested positive in a public health lab and are pending confirmation from the CDC, and confirmed cases have received positive results from the CDC. The Italian Cabinet is discussing a draft proposal that could put people in the region of Lombardy and 11 other provinces in northern Italy under complete lockdown due to coronavirus, according to a close adviser to one of the ministers attending a Cabinet meeting. The text of the draft proposal – also sent to CNN by the press office of the Lombardy regional authority – says that people in Lombardy and the other 11 provinces should "absolutely avoid any movement into and out ... as well as within the same territories ... except for travel motivated by unavoidable working needs or situations of emergency." The draft says the police, the fire brigade and armed forces could be used to enforce these measures.  The measures also could include:  It's unclear when or if these measure would actually be implemented, because the proposal is still being discussed and the terms could change. It could impact more than 10 million people in Italy. The first presumptive positive case of coronavirus was identified in Kansas on Saturday, according to a press release from Gov. Laura Kelly’s office. The patient is a woman under the age of 50 from Johnson County, the release said.  She is home on self-isolation. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and local health department are trying to identify and reach people who may have had contact with the woman while she was infectious, according to the release. “Kansas has been prepared for positive cases of novel coronavirus and will continue to work alongside local and federal public health partners in addressing the potential spread of the virus,” Kelly said.  "It is our main priority to keep Kansans healthy and safe. We want Kansans educated on all aspects related to COVID-19,” Kelly said.  For a state-by-state breakdown of coronavirus cases, click  here .  Thirteen new cases of coronavirus have been confirmed in New York, according to a statement from Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s office.  The statewide total is now 89. Check out CNN's state-by-state breakdown of coronavirus cases  here .  There's no indication that President Donald Trump or Vice President Mike Pence "met with or were in close proximity to the attendee”  who tested positive for coronavirus  after attending the Conservative Political Action Conference last week, White House Press Secretary Stephanie Grisham said in a statement on Saturday. Trump spoke at the event on February 29. Pennsylvania announced two new presumptive positive cases of coronavirus Saturday, according to a  press release from Gov. Tom Wolf . “Both individuals are from Montgomery County, have mild symptoms, are in isolation at home and were exposed to an area of the United States where COVID-19 is present,” Wolf said in the release. There are now four presumptive positive cases in Pennsylvania.  The other two cases are individuals from Delaware County and Wayne County, according to  the Pennsylvania Department of Health . Both of those earlier cases are individuals with mild symptoms and are in isolation at home, Wolf said. Vice President Mike Pence announced a new plan to combat coronavirus on cruises. There will be enhanced entry and exit screening for cruise passengers, as well as on-board testing for coronavirus, Pence said. There will also be new quarantine standards for those who took a cruise and need to be quarantined, which the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention will coordinate.  The cruise line industry is working with the CDC, Department of Homeland Security and the Coast Guard over the next 72 hours to implement the plans.   When asked about reports that he may have come into contact with an infected individual at a conference in Washington earlier this month, Pence said he has “not been tested for the coronavirus.”  “We were able to confirm that I did not come in contact with that young person and we wish them and their family a swift recovery,” Pence said. Canadian officials confirmed an additional two cases of coronavirus in British Columbia on Saturday, bringing the country wide total to 59. One of the new cases is a  man in his 20s  who returned from Italy on March 3 and presented himself to a Toronto hospital’s emergency department, according to a provincial government press release. The other case is of a  woman in her 60s  who returned from Iran on March 2 and presented herself to a Richmond Hill emergency department. In both cases, the “hospital took all necessary precautions and followed standard operating procedures, including testing and assessment,” according to the Ontario government. Both patients were discharged the same day and remain in self-isolation, officials said.