
  
  London's Mayor Sadiq Khan has hit back at government criticism over the capital's tube network running a reduced service amid the Covid-19 outbreak, telling local news outlets that Transport for London (TFL) is operating the maximum number of tube services it can, while maintaining safety. 
  "We’re running the maximum tubes we can, as safely as we can. That roughly means that there are 55% of the tubes running," Khan said Tuesday in an interview with Channel 4 News. 
  The London's mayor's remarks come after images of London's tube services circulated Tuesday morning depicting crowded trains, despite the virtual lockdown imposed by the government on Monday. 
  Earlier on Tuesday, UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock criticized Transport for London's decision to run a reduced service, suggesting that an increase in the number of tubes running would allow members of the public to adhere to the government's social-distancing guidelines, while traveling on the underground network.
  "TFL should have the tube running in full so that people travelling on the tube can be spaced out and further apart, obeying the two metre rule as best possible," Hancock said during the government's daily COVID-19 press briefing. 
  "There is no good reason in the information that I've seen that the current levels of tube provision should be as low as they are. We should have more tube trains running," the Health Secretary added. 
  Speaking to BBC London, Khan denounced the "blame game being played" by Hancock, highlighting the "heroic" work being carried out by TFL staff, and the pressure placed on TFL by the number of staff members who are off work.
  "About a third of TFL staff are off work, mainly because of themselves having COVID-19, or members of their family having the symptoms, which means they are self-isolating...TFL are running the maximum service they’re able to do safely, with the number of staff that they have got," Khan asserted. 
  As states compete for valuable medical resources like testing kits, face masks and ventilators, some are turning to their senators to help with supply shortages.
  Behind the scenes, lawmakers are overwhelmed by the stories they are hearing back home, and stepping in to troubleshoot. Senators are relying on their closer relationships with the White House and federal officials to get states what they need. 
  Sen. Tina Smith, a Democrat from Minnesota, recounted that in her state, the public health department had been approved to receive more than 55,000 N95 masks, nearly 122,000 surgical masks, 23,145 face shields, more than 18,000 gowns and more than 67,000 gloves from the strategic stockpile. But when health officials opened up their shipment Friday, they saw just 657 pairs of gloves.
  They called her office.
  For the rest of the weekend, Smith and her staff were on the phone with Department of Health and Human Services, troubleshooting with the governor’s office and trying to understand what had gone wrong.
  Just days later, after the weekend calls, Minnesota public health officials received another shipment that contained the items they had been approved for. But, Smith said public health officials in her state still warn it’s not likely to be enough for the long haul. She also said that her state still has not received a single ventilator from the stockpile. Other hotspots like New York, California and Washington continue to be top priorities as the government seeks to slow to spread of Covid-19 there.
  Smith says she doesn’t blame career officials at HHS or the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
  “I feel like the career staff are trying their hardest. I don’t blame them,” she said. “It feels as if the administration’s response is haphazard… I cannot help but think that if they had started to prepare for this in early February…we would have been in a better spot…”
  It’s not just places like Minnesota that state officials are asking senators with closer ties to the federal government to help. 
  In South Dakota, Sen. John Thune, the second-ranking Republican in the Senate, stepped in to try and help his state. According to an aide familiar, Thune helped South Dakota Gov. Kristi Noem lean on both the White House and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention last week when the state needed more reagents required to complete the Covid-19 tests.
   
   
  
  
  White House press secretary Stephanie Grisham, who has been quarantined since coming in contact with Brazilian officials almost two weeks ago and has been working from home, has received negative Covid-19 test results and will be back to work Wednesday, deputy White House press secretary Judd Deere told reporters tonight. 
  Fabio Wajngarten, the press secretary for Brazilian president Jair Bolsonaro, tested positive for coronavirus earlier this month.
  Wajngarten was with Bolsonaro on a US trip earlier this month, during which the Brazilian president  dined with President Trump at Mar-a-Lago. 
  Rancho Palos Verdes, California, Mayor John Cruikshank said he contracted coronavirus after attending a birthday party at Trump National Golf Club Los Angeles.
  The disco-themed birthday party, held on March 8, was for former Rancho Palos Verdes Mayor Susan Brooks, who is also positive for the virus, according to a statement from the city of Rancho Palos Verdes. Other guests at the party, which was attended by several current and former city officials, have also contracted the virus, according to the statement.
  Cruikshank’s wife has not tested positive for the virus, according to city spokesperson Megan Barnes.
  City employees, including the mayor pro tem, are self-quarantined out of an abundance of caution. City Hall has been closed since March 14 and is undergoing a deep cleaning, per a directive from City Manager Ara Mihranian.
  The Trump National Golf Club Los Angeles is closed until further notice, a club representative told CNN on Friday.
  A spokesperson for the Trump Organization did not immediately respond to a request for comment, nor did former mayor Susan Brooks.
  CORRECTION: This post has been updated to reflect that Mayor John Cruikshank contracted coronavirus. His wife has not tested positive for the virus, according to a city spokesperson. 
  
  
  WeWork, the coworking space provider, said it has an obligation to stay open for its members who are working on essential businesses. And while it has implemented a work from home policy for all of its employees, building staffers or “community” team members, will be given bonuses of $100 per day should they choose to come to work. 
  "This will go into effect immediately and we will reevaluate this policy again by March 31st,” the memo said. 
  A Transportation Security Administration officer at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport has tested positive for coronavirus, according to a statement from the airport.
  The officer was last on duty at the airport the morning of March 21, according to the airport. The checkpoint where the agent worked is now closed for cleaning.
  At least two dozen TSA screeners around the country have tested positive for Covid-19, according to a count maintained by the agency.
  Two infants in San Diego have tested positive for coronavirus, Public Health Officer Dr. Wilma Wooten announced at a news conference Tuesday.
  This is the first time San Diego County has reported cases of infants less than one year of age, Wooten confirmed.
  
  
  About 1,900 students returned to Liberty University, a private evangelical Christian university, in Lynchburg, Virginia, a spokesperson confirmed to CNN on Tuesday.
  Liberty University President Jerry Falwell Jr. and other leaders discussed whether to extend spring break and "risk students having a longer time to become exposed to the virus," the school said in a  statement . It decided it was safer to bring the students back to campus.
  Falwell's decision to bring students back to campus flies against the guidance provided by state officials and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
  Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam issued a statewide order Monday to help slow down the spread of coronavirus. The order bans gatherings of more than 10 people and goes into effect just before midnight on Tuesday.
  The order also closes nonessential businesses and shuts down all K-12 schools for the rest of the academic year.
  
  
  Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, told reporters that while he met with President Trump in the Oval Office Tuesday he emphasized the need to be “flexible” in determining a date for a bounce back, following Trump’s comments that he may relax guidelines by Easter Sunday.
  He also said that parts of the country may be OK by Easter but added other places that are worsening. 
  “Obviously no one is going to want to tone down things when you see things going on like in NYC," Fauci said.
  He also spoke about the need to get more data through testing.
   “We need to put a light on those dark spots," Fauci said.
  Watch: 
  
 