
  
  Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear has recommended that all public and private schools throughout the commonwealth cease in-person classes for at least two weeks due to concerns over the coronavirus outbreak.
  Speaking at a news conference in Frankfort this afternoon, Beshear called this “a big, but necessary step,” and said he made the announcement today in order to give faculty and staff time to put together in-home assignments, as well as giving parents time to prepare for the closure.
  Beshear specifically chose the terminology “ceasing in-person classes” in order to give individual superintendents flexibility to keep school cafeterias open even when classes are not in-session, he told reporters this afternoon.
  Utah is banning all mass gatherings of more than 100 people, starting next Monday, to curb the spread of the coronavirus. 
  Gov. Gary Herbert said the ban – which includes houses of worship – will be in effect for two weeks. The order does not apply to K-12 schools, although all districts were asked “to prepare to close.”
  Anyone who is over the age of 60 or has immunity problems is encouraged to avoid any gatherings of 20 or more people. An exception is made for businesses like grocery stores. Anyone who is sick is being told to stay home.
  A woman who traveled from China to Illinois in mid-January likely transmitted novel coronavirus to her husband through "prolonged, unprotected contact," according to research released Thursday. 
  None of more than 300 people who came into contact with the two patients after they showed symptoms, however, developed symptoms of their own.
  The findings, published in the medical journal The Lancet, detail the first known transmission of novel coronavirus in the United States, and suggest that the virus may transmit most easily through extended contact with infected people, not brief or casual exposures.
  Dr. Jennifer Layden, the chief medical officer of the Chicago Department of Public Health, who co-led the research, stressed that health care providers should still "rapidly triage and isolate individuals suspected of having [the virus]" and notify local health departments.
  That's because, according to the study, "infection control measures within the hospital setting and an aggressive public health response" to these first cases might have prevented widespread coronavirus exposure. And it's possible that other patients — those with more severe illness, for example — may transmit the virus more easily.
  The researchers cautioned that their findings are preliminary and based on a single transmission event, which might not represent the population at large.
  The study had other limitations, too. Because they relied on memories to reconstruct people's movements, investigators might not have identified everybody who came into contact with the coronavirus patients.
  Madison Square Garden and the Barclays Center could be closed for months, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said at a news conference today.
  This comes after an announcement was made to cancel events of 500 or more people across the state, de Blasio said.
  Auto giant Fiat Chrysler confirmed today that an employee has tested positive for COVID-19 at one of its facilities in Kokomo, Indiana, according to a statement from the car maker.
  The employee’s immediate co-workers have been placed into quarantine along with others in the facility who the person may have come into direct contact with. FCA has deep cleaned and disinfected the employees working area.
  The company is also “deploying additional sanitization measures across the entire facility, retiming break times to avoid crowding and deploying social spacing,” according to the statement.
  More context:  The United Auto Workers union, which represents 400,000 members, is actively monitoring the situation and working with Fiat Chrysler on precautions and measures necessary to “protect our members and everyone who works in our facilities,” said United Auto Workers Vice President Cindy Estrada. 
  The FCA Kokomo plant currently remains open.
  The show must go on. Sorta.
  While the home of the Seattle Symphony has canceled all public events through the end of the month, the Symphony has said it will continue to offer its performances online "to offer strength, comfort and unity" while many public gathering places are closed to help limit the spread of coronavirus.
  The first rebroadcast is slated to begin at 7:30 p.m. local time (10:30 p.m. ET) on Thursday night. More details about the  streaming schedule  can be found on the Symphony's website.
  The New York Police Department tweeted today that there are no plans to shut down the roadways or subways in the city.
  
  All schools will close for two weeks in Maryland starting Monday, State Superintendent of Maryland Schools Karen Salmon said at a news conference today.
  The schools will remain closed until March 27, Salmon said.
  As a result of the closure, make-up days will take place during spring break, which was scheduled for mid-April, Salmon said.
  Students who receive meals will continue to receive food through programs, Salmon said.
  The Maryland Department of Education is also working to give childcare options to residents who must continue to work such as health care providers, Salmon said.
  Gov. Larry Hogan has directed Maryland Emergency Management to the highest activation level and issued an executive order that moves the National Guard to a higher state of readiness, he said at a news conference Thursday.
  He also banned all gatherings of more than 250 people. Any religious, sporting or other gatherings of 250 people or more will need to be canceled and postponed, Hogan said. 
  Additional measures are being taken to mitigate the spread of novel coronavirus, including state government workers teleworking, public access to state buildings being restricted, and the closures of senior activity centers, Hogan said.
  Hogan encouraged grocery stores, restaurants and gas stations to remain open as to not impact daily life of Maryland residents.
  Maryland currently has at least 12 cases of coronavirus statewide.
  Watch: 
  
  
 