
  
  All 10 million residents in Los Angeles County are now eligible to apply for a coronavirus test.
  Mayor Eric Garcetti said at a news conference today that there are “no longer any limits” on who can apply for the testing. Patients don’t have to be over age 65, have underlying medical conditions, or have a weakened immune system, as was previously required. 
  Garcetti said that doesn’t mean officials immediately have a test for everyone in the county -- the most populous in the US -- but it means that the capacity of tests is now greater than the number of cases they’ve been receiving under the previous guidelines.
  LA County residents can register for testing at  https://corona-virus.la 
  If North Carolina stops social distancing at the end of April -- as President Donald Trump and administration officials have pushed for -- there could be 750,000 state residents infected by June, said state health officials.
  The North Carolina-specific modeling forecast showed that if the state stopped social distancing by the end of this month, there is more than a 50% probability that the state will outstrip ICU bed capability and acute care capacity -- even as early as May.
  On the other hand, if social distancing stayed in effect, it could cut the number of infections by half a million cases -- down to 250,000.
  North Carolina now has 2,870 cases and 33 deaths, said Cohen. 
  Chle has announced the mandatory use of face masks for all travelers riding public and private transportation to combat the spread of coronavirus.
  During a televised news conference Monday, Chile's Undersecretary of Public Health Paula Daza said the measure will go in effect on Wednesday, April 8 at 5 a.m. local time. 
  Some of the transportation methods that are included in the measure include trains, buses, metros and taxis. 
  The announcement comes after Health Minister Jaime Mañalich called on the population to start making their own masks with homemade materials, such as T-shirts and scarves.
  Nissan plans to furlough most of its hourly manufacturing employees as its US plants remain closed to help slow the spread of Covid-19.
  Nissan spokeswoman Lloryn Love-Carter confirmed the company will lay off about 10,000 employees Tuesday at plants in Canton, Mississippi; Smyrna, Tennessee and Decherd, Tennessee.
  Nissan asked furloughed employees to apply for enhanced unemployment through at least April 27, when the company will restart production.
  Nissan closed its US plants on March 20.
 