The Washington region’s battle with the novel  coronavirus  intensified Sunday, as the number of confirmed cases soared to more than 7,000 and Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan (R)  issued an emergency order  requiring nursing home staff to wear protective gear and segregate infected patients to halt the spread of the disease following outbreaks in the state’s long-term care facilities.
  Meanwhile, the administration of D.C. Mayor Muriel E. Bowser (D) ordered the Wharf Fish Market in Southwest Washington shut down Sunday after customers crowded its open-air marketplace Saturday, defying social-distancing orders. The closure will last through at least April 24, according to a spokeswoman for Bowser, and may be extended.
  One month to the day of the first known coronavirus case in the metropolitan area, the region’s death toll hit 141, with 7,252 confirmed infections. As of Sunday morning, the District had 1,002 confirmed cases and 22 deaths; Maryland had 3,610 cases and 67 deaths; and Virginia had 2,640 cases and 52   deaths.
  Maryland, meanwhile, continued its struggle to contain outbreaks that have so far struck 81 nursing homes and long-term care facilities. At Pleasant View Nursing Home in Mount Airy, the site of the state’s largest outbreak, at least 99 residents and staff had tested positive and 10 residents had died. Hogan’s emergency order, issued Sunday, requires nursing homes and similar elder-care facilities to create isolation areas for residents infected with or suspected of having the virus; designate teams of workers to tend to the patients; and send coronavirus test kits to a state lab for expedited testing.
  “As we have been saying for several weeks, older Marylanders and those with underlying health conditions are more vulnerable and at a significantly higher risk of contracting, getting more severely ill and dying from this disease,” said Hogan, who, as chair of the National Governors Association, has represented states’ top elected officials and has also been one of the few Republicans to question President Trump’s statements about the pandemic.
  “We will use every tool at our disposal to protect the most vulnerable among us,” Hogan said.
  Hogan’s order, elements of which were mentioned by the state’s deputy health secretary at a Friday news conference, requires all staff in close contact with residents to wear face masks, gloves and gowns. The facilities can request additional equipment from the state. It also mandates that the facilities send coronavirus tests to the Maryland Public Health Laboratory, which prioritizes evaluations for symptomatic residents of such facilities.
  New data  indicates the virus is not slowing its march across the region.
  On Sunday, Maryland announced its highest single-day increase in confirmed cases at 484. Prince George’s and Baltimore counties saw their largest increases to date, with 132 and 99 new confirmed infections, respectively. In Virginia, Arlington County also experienced its largest single-day increase with 31 new cases, bringing its total to 181.
  As the number of confirmed cases increased, the region reported 16 new fatalities Sunday, short of the 21 deaths reported Saturday, which marked the largest single-day increase in deaths. The District reported 96 new cases and the death of a 76-year-old woman. Virginia added 230 cases and three    fatalities but lowered its overall death toll while three previously reported deaths are reexamined for a link to covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus. In Maryland, authorities reported 14 new covid-19 deaths Sunday.
  Virginia is also grappling with outbreaks in nursing homes. As of Friday, 17 residents at the Canterbury Rehabilitation and Healthcare Center in Henrico County had died of the disease. Five died in a 24-hour period. Officials at the 190-bed facility said it had tested all residents and most of the staff  and found that 108 residents and 25 employees have been infected.
  Danny Avula, director of the Richmond and Henrico health districts, said at a Thursday news conference that Canterbury continues to suffer from a lack of personal protective equipment.
  Experts and public health authorities caution that the official tallies of coronavirus cases do not provide a complete picture of the virus’s toll. New test results may reflect week-old samples, and people carrying the virus now may take as long as 14 days to develop symptoms. Additionally, many guidelines limit coronavirus tests to people exhibiting symptoms, meaning that more people are infected than labs can confirm.
  On the same day that the White House virus task force coordinator  proclaimed the District could be a new hot spot , the city experienced an online uproar after social-media posts Saturday showed crowds at the Wharf Fish Market in Southwest Washington, defying the mandate that people practice social distancing and stay at least six feet apart. In the aftermath, city regulators on Sunday ordered the popular open-air market, restaurant and nightlife spot shuttered through at least April 24.
  In the interim, Bowser and city officials are encouraging the market’s vendors to develop a strategy for serving customers — while enforcing social-distancing rules — and present it to the D.C. Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs.
  “If the plan allows for safe operations, the venue will be allowed to reopen,” Bowser communications director LaToya Foster said in a statement. “DCRA and D.C. Health would continue to monitor compliance.”
  The large volume of customers at the market — where, in some cases, people stood within inches of one another — was all the more outrageous to District residents given Bowser’s  projection Friday  that about 1 in every 7 D.C. residents could contract the coronavirus. Bowser also said that the city probably would hit its largest number of hospitalizations in early summer. As of Sunday, however,  a projection  from a University of Washington health research center said the District could reach peak “hospital resource use” as soon as April 15 and hit as many as nine deaths per day starting April 13.
  One reason D.C. officials are predicting a later and higher peak in needed hospital beds is that they suspect residents will not adhere to social-distancing rules as faithfully as the University of Washington researchers anticipate.
  Bowser recently joined Maryland and Virginia in instituting a stay-at-home order, requiring residents to remain indoors except for essential activities, such as grocery shopping. Activities such as dog-walking, running and hiking are allowed but should be pursued only with family members.
  Bowser has also banned gatherings of more than 10 people, and has instructed those who do venture outdoors to remain at least six feet apart. Violators could be subject to a fine of up to $5,000 and three months in jail, though the mayor said criminal penalties would be a last resort.
  The ranks of the city’s law enforcement and fire and rescue personnel also continue to be hit by the virus. Four more members of the D.C. Fire and Emergency Medical Services Department have tested positive for the coronavirus, officials said Sunday, bringing to 32 the number of firefighters, paramedics and emergency medical technicians who have fallen ill. An assistant fire chief is included in that tally.
  Fire officials said seven members have recovered and have been cleared for work.
  The fire department said 173 of its members are in quarantine, and 165 members who had been quarantined have returned to work. The department has more than 2,000 members.
  A total of 17 members of the D.C. police department have tested positive for the coronavirus, and an additional 195 are in quarantine. Another 194 members who had been in quarantine have returned to work.
  The D.C. police department, which has more than 3,800 sworn members, has said one officer is in critical condition.
 