Birmingham:  The high school graduation season will present a test of the state’s ability to reopen society without hastening the spread of the new coronavirus as thousands gather for ceremonies next week at some of Alabama’s largest schools. As many as 2,500 people will be allowed at a Tuesday evening commencement for nearly 550 graduates in the football stadium at Thompson High School, the Class 7A state high school football champion, in the Birmingham suburb of Alabaster, according to a school system announcement. About 15 miles away, Spain Park and Hoover high schools, with 3,300 students combined, will hold ceremonies Wednesday and Thursday at Hoover Metropolitan Stadium. The ceremonies are allowed because the state last week eliminated rules that limited crowds to 10 people or fewer. Gatherings of any size are allowed now as long as people from different households stay at least 6  feet apart. 
  Anchorage:  Some residents in Southeast Alaska who have seen the border with Canada closed because of the coronavirus feel cut off from an area they visit and drive through frequently. Haines, Skagway and Hyder all have been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and resulting border closure that has altered life dramatically for some, The Anchorage Daily News reports. The communities are connected to the rest of the state by the Alaska Highway through Canada, and each place depends on its neighboring Canadian town for necessities such as food, health care and medicine, and various activities conducted across the border. The U.S.-Canada border closed March  20 to all nonessential traffic, and the closure was recently extended to May  21. Yukon has stringent travel restrictions and quarantine requirements for anyone entering the territory until it is no longer in a state of emergency. 
  Phoenix:  Some restaurants reopened for dine-in service Monday as Gov. Doug Ducey relaxed more measures aimed at slowing the spread of the coronavirus. From large chains to mom-and-pop eateries, restaurants were allowed to host patrons for the first time in nearly two months at limited capacity and with other restrictions that include more space between tables and no parties with more than 10 people. “Our goal is not to be busy for the first week,” said Phoenix-based restaurateur Sam Fox. “Our goal is to make sure we have our procedures in place, our employees are feeling safe. We really want to get this right the first time.” Restaurant owners described a variety of steps they’re taking to ensure customers and workers feel safe, from separating tables to providing masks, gloves and health screenings for employees when they arrive. Chompies, a local chain, installed plastic screens between booths.
  Little Rock:  The governor said Monday that he’s “distressed” by reports of people in the state not socially distancing because of the coronavirus, but he doesn’t regret allowing businesses shuttered by the virus to reopen. Gov. Asa Hutchinson cited no specific examples, but the Republican’s comments came after social media posts over the weekend showed crowds and lines, including people not wearing masks, at some stores. Arkansas never issued a stay-at-home order because of the virus but had imposed other restrictions that Hutchinson has been rolling back recently. Restaurants on Monday were allowed to resume offering dine-in service but with new capacity limits and safety rules. Hutchinson said he didn’t regret reopening restaurants, gyms and hair salons last week, saying the retailers where crowds were seen would have remained open even if the state had a broader stay-at-home order in place.
  Sacramento:  The state’s top emergency official defended the state Monday over failed, high-priced deals for personal protective equipment, saying taxpayers haven’t lost money, and the state was doing its best amid a worldwide mad dash for gear during the coronavirus pandemic. “Given the thousands of commodities vetted, the tremendous pressure to source and the significant amount of vendors we were dealing with, there were ultimately just a few that required us to either cancel the contract or seek reimbursement,” Mark Ghilarducci, director of the state’s Office of Emergency Services, said during an oversight hearing before state Assembly lawmakers. “Not one dime – not one dime – of taxpayer dollars has been lost.” California has spent roughly $2.2  billion on 180 contracts for personal protective equipment such as face masks, shields and gowns without a competitive bidding process, state officials said. 
  Denver:  Catholics across much of the state are allowed to celebrate Mass in-person again as the coronavirus eases in Colorado, church officials said. While the details vary church to church, congregants must wear masks and practice social distancing, Colorado Public Radio reports. Schedules also have changed, and some churches are celebrating Mass more frequently and asking people to sign up ahead of time. Mary Pettifor of Littleton said she has enjoyed watching services from all over the world online over the past few weeks, but it’s not the same as attending in person. She used a scarf to cover her nose and mouth at the Holy Ghost Church in downtown Denver on Saturday and said she isn’t worried about getting sick. “What will be will be,” she said. “If you’re a Catholic, and if you’re in the state of grace, then you have to be ready to die anyway.” Veronica Ambuul, a spokeswoman for the Diocese of Colorado Springs, said churches haven’t reopened there.
  Hartford:  The state’s COVID-19 death toll surpassed 3,000 on Monday, even as state officials announced plans to open day camps this summer. Officials reported 41 additional deaths, bringing the total to 3,008. “Shame on us for underestimating, perhaps, what could happen,” Gov. Ned Lamont said, adding that the U.S. surgeon general had told him during a visit early last month that the outbreak would likely be similar to a bad flu season, in which about 100 Connecticut residents die. But the governor also noted that hospitalizations from the coronavirus continue to trend downward and that less than 10% of COVID-19 tests in the state came back positive for the second consecutive day. There were 1,212 people hospitalized with the coronavirus on Monday, down by 30 patients from the weekend. “In terms of the metrics that we had in mind thinking about our May  20 beginning-to-reopen date, we’re on track,” said Lamont, a Democrat. 
  Dover:  Farmers markets in the state are set to reopen Friday after being closed for nearly two months amid the coronavirus pandemic, officials have announced. The Delaware Department of Agriculture announced the reopening in a statement Monday detailing a series of protocols that would be enacted to help the markets operate safely. Under the new rules, markets will not be allowed to host entertainment shows or activities, and food trucks and prepared food will not be offered for consumption on-site. “To create a safer environment for all involved in farmers’ markets, they will no longer be considered a social venue,” the statement said. Instead, the markets will either be walk-throughs or drive-thrus, according to the new rules. All customers will be required to wear face coverings, and only two members per household will be permitted to enter. Walkways will be one way. Visitors will not be allowed to handle the items.
  Washington:  As the nation continues to depend on essential workers during the coronavirus, the district has topped the charts as the region with the most essential workers in the U.S., according to a report from the United Way of the National Capital Area. United Way analyzed the number of workers in each industry and calculated the percentage of the labor force that is in essential industries in each state using data from the Bureau of Labor,  WUSA-TV reports . Data shows that Washington, D.C., leads the nation with the highest percentage of essential workers in their labor force with 74.93%, followed by North Dakota with 57.3%, Wyoming with 53.46%, Indiana with 51.8% and Kentucky with 51.26%. The main essential industries in the district are jobs in government, health care and community services, with the leading job in financial services.
  Tallahassee:  Four protesters in Tyvek suits, gloves and face masks  lined up about 17 body bags on the steps of the Old Capitol in front of the Grim Reaper on Tuesday . A group of “concerned Floridians” staged the protest early Tuesday morning. The body bags were meant to represent the lives of Floridians who have or who may die from COVID-19. One protester was dressed as a larger-than-life Donald Trump, wearing a striped prison uniform. The protest was organized by Indivisible, a grassroots progressive movement, to send a message to Gov. Ron DeSantis asking him “to listen to medical experts and not cave to pressure to open the state too fast, risking more lives.”
  Atlanta:  Trails at two national parks in the area reopened Monday amid an ongoing loosening of coronavirus restrictions in the state. Visitors could access all trails and some parking areas at the Chattahoochee River National Recreation Area and Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park and enter both parks for free. Officials planned to keep a close eye for any crowds or other violations of public health guidance. Visitor centers and restrooms remained closed. “We are expecting people to come out, but we do want to caution people to be careful,” Ann Honious, with the National Park Service, told WSB-TV. On Thursday, the Chattahoochee and Oconee National Forests in northern and central Georgia reopened some trails, although the Appalachian Trail and its access points remained closed. Cumberland Island National Seashore allowed people to return to beaches by private boat beginning May  2. 
  Hilo:  Observatories on the state’s highest mountain started resuming activities following a forced closure in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Observatories within the Mauna Kea Science Reserve on the Big Island have been closed since March, The Hawaii Tribune-Herald reports. The observatories were among nonessential businesses and facilities closed in accordance with Democratic Gov. David Ige’s emergency proclamation. The Canada-France-Hawaii Telescope was able to resume nighttime observations, executive director Doug Simons said. “I was pleased to see a night log with some actual data after so long,” Simons said. Canada-France-Hawaii’s internship program, which attracts several dozen interns every year, has been suspended indefinitely because of the state’s mandatory 14-day quarantine for arriving travelers, Simons said. Despite the green light to reopen, the observatories may not return to full operations for some time.
  Idaho Falls:  A system able to decontaminate 80,000 N95 masks a day so they can be reused has arrived in the city, strengthening the state’s ability to protect health care workers from the coronavirus, Gov. Brad Little said last week. The U.S. Department of Defense Logistics Agency last month awarded a $415  million contract for 60 Battelle Memorial Institute Critical Care Decontamination Systems, which are being distributed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Resources. Some have been put in operation around the country decontaminating the masks that can be reused up to 20 times. There’s no cost to use the service. The decontamination system makes sure “the front-line health providers have the equipment they need,” Little said in a statement. 
  Chicago:  Gov. J.B. Pritzker and all senior administration officials will work from home for an undetermined period of time after an aide tested positive for COVID-19, according to a Monday statement. Pritzker has twice tested negative, with the last test administered Sunday, according to his office. All other senior staff members also tested negative. The employee, who tested positive late last week, showed no symptoms and was in close proximity to Pritzker. Roughly 20 members of Pritzker’s administration have been working from his Chicago office, where the first-term Democrat was holding daily news conferences. All administration officials, including Pritzker, will follow Illinois Department of Public Health guidelines and work from home. “The office will undergo deep cleaning, and staff are monitoring themselves for symptoms,” the statement said. “The governor and staff will return to the office when IDPH deems appropriate.”
  Indianapolis:  State officials said most businesses have been following restrictions imposed to slow the coronavirus’ spread. The state issued its first order last week against a business after its owner was set to reopen sooner than allowed under state regulations that are gradually being eased, said Joseph Heerens, chief counsel of the governor’s office. State officials have investigated 1,458 complaints about businesses violating regulations since late March, finding about 90% unfounded, Heerens said. Those others have been resolved after discussions with the businesses, he said. The owner of a small race track in rural western Indiana  said he received the cease-and-desist letter from the state , and county officials placed barricades across the road to block his plans to host races Saturday night. Michael Daugherty, who owns Daugherty Speedway near Boswell, said he had already decided to call off the races when the concrete barriers and locked metal barricades went up Friday. “It felt like they were trying to bully and intimidate me,” Daugherty said.
  Iowa City:  Gov. Kim Reynolds said Tuesday that she’s still considering how far to go in lifting local public health restrictions, as the state reported 18 more deaths from the coronavirus. Reynolds had planned to announce which business closures she would allow to expire Friday and which she would extend through May. But she said she was still looking at data and now expects an announcement Wednesday. Restaurants in 22 counties remain closed. Statewide, bars, salons, barbershops, movie theaters, casinos, museums and several other businesses are ordered closed until Friday. Reynolds has hinted that parts of eastern Iowa that remain under restrictions, such as Iowa City and Cedar Rapids, are on a positive trajectory and could see some lifted. But the Des Moines area has seen a large increase in cases, and cities like Sioux City and Waterloo are still managing the aftermath of huge meatpacking plant outbreaks.
  Wichita:  A new drive-thru site that tests for the new coronavirus without requiring participants to have symptoms is drawing heavy interest. The site drew lines of cars and dozens of people seeking testing on its first day of operation Monday, Wichita television station KSN reports. The testing offered by HealthCore Clinic is free with no questions asked. Other Wichita testing clinics require people to have symptoms before they can be tested. HealthCore Clinic is working with Wichita State University, Quest Diagnostics and the Sedgwick County Health Department to provide the free testing. “We don’t want anyone to be left behind,” said Teresa Lovelady, president and CEO of Healthcare Clinic. Health experts have noted that many people who have tested positive for the virus showed no symptoms. The testing is available through the month of May and while testing supplies last.
  Frankfort:  A 10-year-old child  has been put on a ventilator while battling complications linked to the coronavirus , state officials said Monday. Gov. Andy Beshear paused his daily briefing on the coronavirus outbreak for a moment of silence for the youngster. Officials believe it’s the only case of a Kentucky child suffering from a new syndrome associated with COVID-19 that can affect children, the governor said. “I don’t want to be sensational about any of this,” said Dr. Steven Stack, Kentucky’s public health commissioner. “I want to be just the facts and down the middle as much as I can. For kids who get this syndrome, it’s serious.” Parents should take comfort that children generally do “extraordinarily well” with the coronavirus, Stack said. But a small number of children can get the syndrome in which their immune system becomes overactive, causing an inflammatory response, he said.
  Baton Rouge:  Saying the state has made significant strides in combating the COVID-19 outbreak, Gov. John Bel Edwards announced Monday that he will begin loosening restrictions this weekend on churches, restaurants, salons and gyms, moving away from a “stay-at-home” position he enacted in late March. The new regulations take effect Friday, largely in line with the first phase of reopening as envisioned under the White House guidelines provided to states. Businesses and churches newly allowed to open will be limited to one-quarter of their previous capacity, and employees working around customers will have to wear masks. Restaurants and coffee shops can reopen inside seating and table service. Barbers and salons can resume color services and cuts. Museums, zoos, aquariums and movie theaters can also resume operations, and gamblers will be allowed to return to casinos and video poker sites. But none can exceed the 25% capacity level.
  Augusta:  Retailers in 12 counties that have not experienced large numbers of coronavirus cases began reopening Monday in Maine. New guidelines announced late last week by Gov. Janet Mills allow retail stores to reopen with enhanced safety precautions in all parts of Maine except four counties: York, Cumberland, Androscoggin and Penobscot. Restaurants follow May  18. The Maine Center for Disease Control will be monitoring infection rates and will make suggestions if there’s an increase, said Dr. Nirav Shah, Maine CDC’s director. “We’re continuing our analysis of the data because we want to make sure that if a secondary spike were to occur that we’re able to spot it and able to take policy steps accordingly,” Shah saod. LaNiece Sirois from the Central Aroostook Chamber of Commerce encouraged customers to be patient as retailers sort out safety restrictions. 
  Annapolis:  UnitedHealthcare has filed to offer individual health plans in the state’s health care exchange next year, Gov. Larry Hogan announced Tuesday. Now, there are two insurers who offer individual market health plans through the Maryland marketplace: CareFirst BlueCross BlueShield and Kaiser Permanente. The governor says it’s more important than ever for Maryland residents to have access to health insurance options because of the coronavirus pandemic. Nearly 159,000 people enrolled in private plans through the Maryland health insurance marketplace during the initial 2020 open enrollment period. Nearly 29,000 people have since enrolled during a special coronavirus open enrollment period, running through June  15. Maryland’s health care exchange was established in 2011 as part of the federal Affordable Care Act. 
  Boston:  A Memorial Day weekend flag garden on Boston Common to honor the 37,000 military members from the state who have died in the service of the country dating to the Revolutionary War has been canceled because of the coronavirus pandemic, organizers say. The Massachusetts Military Heroes Fund is instead asking residents to place a flag either in their window or on their front lawn and then to post pictures and videos on social media with the hashtag #HeroesFlagGarden. Meanwhile, Massachusetts hospitals’ finances are taking a hard hit during the pandemic. The state’s hospitals are currently losing $1.4  billion in revenue each month and are projected to lose $5  billion in revenue through July, according to the Massachusetts Health & Hospital Association, The Boston Globe reports. The downturn is being caused by the cancellation of elective and non-critical surgeries and a drop in non-coronavirus visits. 
  Ahmeek:  An entrepreneur in the Upper Peninsula is responsible for billboards in the state’s urban areas that are encouraging people to reopen businesses May  21, even if coronavirus restrictions haven’t been lifted. Gov. Gretchen Whitmer has been slowly giving a green light to parts of the economy, including manufacturing this week. But Erik Kiilunen said it’s time to get everyone working. He told MLive.com that the governor doesn’t seem to trust businesses to operate safely. “The American citizen has no obligation to sit idly by while his savings and his livelihood are bled dry,” Kiilunen said. Kiilunen is the co-founder of Neuvokas Corp., which makes fiber-reinforced rebar for new buildings and roads, and has other businesses. The billboards in the Detroit area, Grand Rapids and Lansing say, “All Business Is Essential.” Kiilunen has raised more than $25,000 through a GoFundMe page. He calls May  21 “Michigan Take Yourself to Work Day.” 
  Cold Spring:  Workers protested what they consider dangerous working conditions at the Pilgrim’s Pride chicken processing plant in this central Minnesota town, the site of one of the largest COVID-19 workplace outbreaks in the state. State officials confirmed 194 cases as of Monday among the plant’s more than 1,100 workers. That’s more than double the 83 cases just four days earlier. A chain of about 80 vehicles carrying workers and supporters rolled past the facility Monday, demanding the company shut it down for a deep cleaning and pay the workers for the downtime. Pablo Tapia, one of the rally organizers, told the Star Tribune that Pilgrim’s Pride knew the outbreak was growing but kept ignoring it. Pilgrim’s Pride said in a statement that it has “implemented a wide of range of measures to combat coronavirus” at the plant.
  Jackson:  Gov. Tate Reeves on Monday signed a new executive order dealing with unemployment benefits during the coronavirus pandemic. Under normal circumstances, people must be without work for a week before they become eligible to collect benefits. In March, Reeves signed an order waiving the one-week waiting period, and that waiver was supposed to remain in place until June  27. The order he signed Monday extends it until Dec.  26. During a news conference Monday, Reeves encouraged employees to return to work as businesses reopen. He said exceptions can be made for people who are older or are medically vulnerable. “There’s really no government replacement for a job,” Reeves said. Meanwhile, White House officials told governors Monday that states should try to test all nursing home residents and employees for the virus in the next two weeks. Reeves said there’s no timeline to meet that goal in Mississippi. 
  Kansas City:  Attorneys for the family of a nurse who died from COVID-19 filed a claim for death benefits Monday under the state’s workers’ compensation laws. Celia Yap-Banago, 69, died April  21 after caring for a patient with COVID-19 at Research Medical Center in Kansas City. Her family, attorneys and the National United Nurses Union contend she died because she and other nurses at the hospital did not have adequate personal protective equipment while caring for patients with the coronavirus. Attorneys Brent and Kristie Welder said in a news release that Yap-Banago and another nurse cared for a patient with coronavirus March  22-23. Both nurses asked their supervisors for PPE for everyone who came in contact with the patient, but the equipment was not provided, the attorneys said. After the patient died, Yap-Banago quarantined at her home but died after fighting the virus for a month. 
  Helena:  The rate at which Montanans are diagnosed with COVID-19 continues to decline as the state begins its third week in which retailers have been able to reopen and the second week that bars and restaurants could offer dine-in options with limited capacity. There were two positive tests results from Saturday through Monday, the state health department said. The state reported five positive tests in the past week, compared to six during the previous seven days. Three weeks ago, Montana had 14 positive tests in seven days. Two of the new cases announced last week involved members of a family from West Yellowstone who were believed to have been infected while traveling out of state. Gallatin County health officer Matt Kelley said it seemed like they laid low after becoming symptomatic, the Bozeman Daily Chronicle reports. One of the new cases reported over the weekend involved a Gallatin County girl who is 9 or younger.
  Omaha:  Gov. Pete Ricketts pushed back Monday against four lawmakers who urged him to cancel a $27  million coronavirus testing contract with a group of out-of-state startup companies, calling their criticism “ludicrous” even though the program is off to a slow start and hasn’t kept up with demand. Ricketts defended the state’s agreement with Utah-based Nomi Health and its partnering companies but acknowledged some early problems with the TestNebraska program. The same companies have similar no-bid contracts with Iowa and Utah that have come under scrutiny as states scramble to conduct more tests. TestNebraska produced 2,358 test results last week – well short short of projected 3,000 per day that’s expected by the end of the month, when the ramp-up period is supposed to end. 
  Reno:  The century-old Reno Rodeo has canceled this year’s 10-day event in June due to the new coronavirus outbreak. Reno Rodeo President Craig Downie said in a letter to the rodeo’s board of directors that canceling the event scheduled June  18-27 is necessary to ensure the safety of participants, fans, vendors, sponsors and volunteers. General Manager George Combs said it was a difficult decision, made in consultation with health experts as well as the Professional Rodeo Cowboys Association. Billed as the “Wildest, Richest Rodeo in the West,” the event attended by 140,000 people annually celebrated its centennial in 2019. Fans who already purchased tickets for this year can request refunds through June  30; otherwise, they’ll be honored at the 2021 rodeo June  17-26. 
  Concord:  Gov. Chris Sununu said he won’t hesitate to shut down shopping malls again if safety guidelines aren’t followed. Monday was the first day nonessential retail stores, hair salons and golf courses could reopen in the state under restrictions aimed at preventing spread of the coronavirus. The Republican governor praised efforts by the Simon Property Group to enact safety measures at the Mall at Rockingham Park, the Pheasant Lane Mall, the Mall of New Hampshire and the Merrimack Outlets, but he said the state will be closely monitoring them. “I will not hesitate to reassess my position on allowing shopping malls to open if the guidance is not properly followed,” he wrote to the company’s president. Mary Sawyer, a United Way of Greater Nashua volunteer, handed out 60 free masks in an hour to a steady stream of shoppers at the Pheasant Lane Mall. Most people were already wearing masks, she said.
  Trenton:  The state will be more than doubling the number of public health professionals currently tracing COVID-19 cases, Gov. Phil Murphy said Tuesday. New Jersey will hire at least 1,000 people, creating a Community Contact Tracing Corps and supplementing the roughly 800 to 900 mostly county health officials who are currently tracing contacts among coronavirus-positive residents, the first-term Democrat said. The news came as Murphy announced the state’s COVID-19 data is trending in the right direction, though he stopped short of specifying dates by which the state might reopen its economy. “The road back is paved with five words: Public health creates economic health,” Murphy said. “We will move as quickly as we can but as safely as we must.” The state’s more than 500 long-term care facilities must also test all their residents for the virus by May  26 under a new health department order, Murphy said. 
  Santa Fe:  Officials have announced that COVID-19 testing is now available for all workers in the state. The New Mexico Department of Health said Monday that testing would be open to government employees, utility and construction workers, grocery and pharmacy employees, and anyone in food service or other service industries. Officials also said testing would be available for any worker seeking a test, symptomatic or not. New Mexico Department of Health Secretary Kathy Kunkel said the state has expanded “open drive-up testing” sites. Lovelace Hospital in Albuquerque opened Tuesday for testing. Testing for the novel coronavirus in New Mexico has increased from limited testing in early March to about 20,000 a week. State officials want to test 7,500 people a day eventually. New Mexico has more than 5,000 COVID-19 cases, with 207 people hospitalized.
  New York:  Gov. Andrew Cuomo called face masks a sign of respect for others on a day the state reported 195 new deaths. Warning that the state isn’t out of danger yet, Cuomo on Tuesday urged New Yorkers to wear masks out of respect for the nurses and doctors who have died to protect people from the pandemic, which he said had killed another 195 people. Cuomo recounted a tense conversation about masks he had with a man while on a recent walk with his daughter. He said people should be aware that masks, which are worn to reduce the wearer’s chance of infecting others, are a sign of respect to everyone they walk past, as well as to workers pulling society through the outbreak. New York requires people to wear face coverings when in close proximity to others in public. As people grow wearier of the extended lockdown, some complain that requirement infringes on individual liberty. Cuomo instead stressed “reciprocal responsibility” as some upstate areas prepare to start phasing in economic activity this week.
  Raleigh:  Legislators and leading sheriffs want Gov. Roy Cooper to clarify or remove a portion of his executive order that limits how religious services can convene under his eased stay-at-home rules for COVID-19. Cooper’s health and human services secretary said Monday that state lawyers and others are taking a second look at the language designed to provide an exception to the continued ban on mass gatherings of more than 10 people. The governor’s order said the permitted worship services “shall take place outdoors unless impossible.” While 18 Republican state senators wrote the Democratic governor thanking him for allowing worship services to proceed, they said faith leaders were worried about what “impossible” meant. Outdoor services could be impossible due to bad weather, the lack of suitable outdoor space or potential damage to equipment, they said. Clairification is necessary so that faith organizations can plan “without fear of potential criminal penalties if they don’t reach the correct interpretation of ‘impossible,’  ” the senators wrote. 
  Bismarck:  Health officials reported two new deaths Tuesday from COVID-19, bringing the state’s death toll to 38. According to the North Dakota Department of Health, the latest deaths are a woman in her 100s and a woman in her 70s, both from Cass County and both with underlying health conditions. The state reported 53 new cases of the coronavirus, bringing the number of cases in the state to 1,571. Of the new cases, 44 are in Cass County, which leads the state with 866 cases. Grand Forks County reported five new cases, bringing that county’s total to 293, second in the state. Burleigh, Stutsman, Ward and Williams counties each reported one new case. The number of patients currently hospitalized in North Dakota with the coronavirus rose by four from the previous day, bringing the total to 38.
  Columbus:  Retail businesses were set to reopen Tuesday following a nearly two-month-long shutdown ordered by Gov. Mike DeWine to limit the spread of the coronavirus. The Republican governor said the move means 90% of the state’s economy will be restarted by week’s end, with Friday’s expected reopening of barbershops, hair salons and outdoor restaurant dining. The governor is making mask-wearing mandatory for most store and business employees and strongly recommended for customers. Individual businesses can decide whether customers should wear masks. “I’m confident that we can in fact do two things at once,” DeWine said Monday. “We can protect Ohioans, we can continue to do the social distancing, do all the things that we need to do, at the same time work to open up our economy, open up more businesses.”
  Norman:  Hundreds of people stood in line Tuesday waiting to enter a casino in central Oklahoma that has been allowed to reopen with social distancing restrictions and sanitation safeguards in place to protect against a resurgence of the coronavirus. “It was time for everyone to get back to work; we were ready to get back to work,” said Sam Caruso, general manager of the Thunderbird Casino in Norman. “It just seemed like the right time to do it.” The reopened casino limited the number of patrons to 200-225, while a sister facility in Shawnee allowed about 100 inside – both about one-third of capacity, Caruso said. No table games are open, he said. Those inside must wear masks and maintain 6  feet of distance from others, although couples are allowed to sit together, he said. Several other tribal casinos in the state remain closed. Chickasaw Nation Governor Bill Anoatubby said that tribe’s casinos will remain closed at least through Friday. 
  Salem:  Gov. Kate Brown has directed state agencies to prepare for a 17% budget cut due to cratering tax revenues because of the coronavirus outbreak. “Whether the state will need to implement this level of cuts will be dependent on several factors, most importantly the need for additional federal funding to support state services, including our K-12 public school system,” Brown said in a statement Monday. The next revenue forecast for Oregon is May  20, and the Democratic governor had previously said she was “gravely concerned” about the state’s ability to deliver basic services in the coming months. Oregon’s economy was booming before the arrival of COVID-19, with unemployment rates at record lows and a $1.5  billion tax surplus. The general fund budget for 2019-2021 is currently about $25  billion. 
  Harrisburg:  The state will roll out a plan to begin coronavirus testing for every resident and employee of nursing homes and other facilities that provide care for older adults, Gov. Tom Wolf said Tuesday. Wolf said his administration will undertake the surveillance testing, with a goal of testing every resident and employee once a week, given the pandemic’s tremendous toll on nursing homes. “What we are going to do, which I think is fairly radical, is make sure that we are doing surveillance testing,” Wolf said on a telephone news conference. Wolf’s health secretary, Dr. Rachel Levine, had previously said there was not enough available testing to test everyone in a nursing home. She also had said that testing everyone wasn’t useful unless they were to be repeatedly tested to continue checking to see whether they became infected later.
  Providence:  The state is committing $8.2  million to boost pay and help retain workers in the state’s nursing homes, group homes and other congregate care facilities during the coronavirus pandemic, the state Executive Office of Health and Human Services announced Tuesday. The Workforce Stabilization Loan Program is expected to benefit more than 10,300 workers who make less than $20 per hour at 164 facilities dedicated to caring for the elderly, people with developmental disabilities, substance-use disorders and at-risk youth. “Once again, Rhode Island saw a critical need caused by the COVID-19 crisis, and we responded – quickly and effectively. These caregivers are helping our most vulnerable residents, and the state needs to help them in return,” Gov. Gina Raimondo said. The loans to providers will be forgiven by the state as long as the funds are spent exclusively on employee wages. 
  Columbia:  At its first-ever oral argument via teleconference, the South Carolina Supreme Court heard concerns about potential difficulties of voting in this year’s elections due to the coronavirus outbreak, as social distancing recommendations remain in place. Last month, two lawsuits were filed in state and federal courts asking judges to require South Carolina to relax rules on absentee voting for the June  9 statewide primary. Absentee voters currently must fall under certain requirements such as being disabled, unable to get to the polls because of work, out of state, or over age 65. Ballots also must be signed by a witness. The lawsuits said absentee rules don’t include isolating from a pandemic, which also could be a problem with the witness requirement. South Carolina Election Commission Executive Director Marci Andino has backed no-excuse absentee voting and expressed safety concerns about in-person voting. 
  Vermillion:  Some students at the University of South Dakota Sanford School of Medicine are staying in rural communities to help staff hospitals and clinics during the coronavirus outbreak. Resources can be tight in rural settings, especially if health care workers or their family members become ill. Medical students Carl Lang and Riley Schaap are currently volunteering in Winner, KSFY-TV reports. “We’re in this profession to serve others, to help other patients,” Lang said. “Health care workers may become ill, their families may become ill, and we need students really to assist and fill a void in those situations,” said Susan Anderson, dean of rural medicine at USD. “Actually learning about how does a local community, how does a local hospital and clinic prepare for a pandemic that can be unpredictable? Because unfortunately we’ll probably be in a similar situation again sometime during their career.”
  Nashville:  Trousdale County has the highest per-capita coronavirus infection rate in the U.S., and Bledsoe County has the fifth, according to an Associated Press analysis. In both counties, the high infection rates are attributable to their local prisons. Trousdale, a county of just over 9,500 people, has reported 1,363 cases of the virus, nearly all of those at the Trousdale Turner Correctional Center run by private prison contractor CoreCivic. The Tennessee-based company tested all inmates at the institution earlier this month, reporting that 1,299 of 2,444 inmates tested positive, as did 50 of 281 workers. Two Trousdale prisoners have died after testing positive. One inmate at the Bledsoe County Correctional Complex also died after contracting COVID-19. The state-run Bledsoe prison had the second-largest outbreak among Tennessee’s 14 prisons, with 586 of 2,316 inmates testing positive.
  Austin:  Gov. Greg Abbott on Monday ordered coronavirus testing for all nursing home residents and staff after the White House urged the nation’s governors to do so as deaths mount nationwide. The directive by Abbott, a Republican, to state health officials came hours after Vice President Mike Pence, who leads the White House coronavirus task force, told governors on a video conference call that it was the federal government’s strong recommendation to test all nursing home residents in the U.S. in the next two weeks. It also came as San Antonio officials announced the first death of an employee at a nursing home that in April was struck by one of Texas’ first major outbreaks. More than 100 people tested positive for the virus at Southeast Nursing and Rehabilitation Center, and 18 residents have died.
  St. George:  ProjectProtect  has expanded its volunteer opportunities into Southern Utah . The initiative, a collaboration among Intermountain Healthcare, University of Utah Health, Latter-day Saint Charities and several Utah nonprofits, was announced in April and seeks to enlist 10,000 volunteer sewers a week to produce more than 5  million medical-grade face masks. It’s also helping produce isolation gowns and more than 50,000 face shields. It is the largest Utah-based volunteer effort since the 2002 Olympic Winter Games.  ProjectProtect volunteers  initially were based only along the Wasatch Front, but Southern Utahans are now needed to help complete this effort by picking up, sewing and returning medical-grade masks, according to a press release. Volunteers need to have a sewing machine, thread, scissors and pins and will pick up the polypropylene mask fabric at the Intermountain Dixie Regional Medical Center. 
  Burlington:  University of Vermont President Suresh Garimella is warning that the novel coronavirus outbreak could produce big changes at the school, including possible layoffs and cuts to salary and benefits. In a letter to the UVM community sent Monday, Garimella said any cuts will not burden “any particular segment of our community,” including lower-paid employees and non-unionized staff. Garimella said national surveys have shown that colleges and universities can expect up to a 20% drop in enrollment. The loss of income from any drop in enrollment is in addition to the school’s direct expenditures of almost $8.7  million to confront the COVID-19 outbreak, including costs for technology, supplies and room refunds to students who left campus early. More expenses are to come. He said increasing tuition is not an option because UVM already has the 4th-highest rate of out-of-state tuition among public universities in the country. 
  Richmond:  During a push to accelerate the review of parole-eligible inmates because of the coronavirus pandemic, Virginia released dozens of violent offenders, including killers, rapists and kidnappers, blindsiding prosecutors and victims’ families who say they were not properly notified as required by law, a review by the Associated Press has found. “I mean, good grief. What, they were never going to tell us, and here we are thinking this killer is still in jail?” said Juanita Gillis, who was informed by a reporter that the man who fatally shot her brother in 1993 was paroled by the board in March. Thomas Runyon’s killer, Dwayne Markee Reid, was among at least 35 people convicted in killings who were granted parole in March, according to an AP review. Ninety-five inmates were paroled in March, just over half the number approved in all of 2019. Many of those released had served decades in prison.
  Tacoma:  Farmers will give away more than 200,000 pounds of potatoes at the Tacoma Dome on Thursday as part of a mission to get 1  million pounds of potatoes into the hands of people in need. The News Tribune reports the potatoes were meant to be sold to restaurants and other food service establishments, but then the COVID-19 pandemic hit. “With so many restaurants closed due to COVID-19 restrictions, our potato farmers have storages full of these potatoes that were scheduled to be turned into french fries, tater tots, hash browns and many other frozen potato products,” a group of Washington state potato farmers said in a press release Monday. “Our farmers and their families recognize that they are not the only ones suffering financially, and they have the potatoes in their storage sheds that can feed so many.” 
  Glenville:  Five inmates at a federal prison have tested positive for the coronavirus after a big transfer of prisoners led to the first case at the lockup. Data on the federal Bureau of Prisons website Tuesday shows the new cases at FCI Gilmer came about a week after one of the 124 inmates transferred to the prison in Glenville tested positive. Federal and state politicians opposed the prisoner transfers when they were announced and then renewed their criticism after the positive case emerged at Gilmer. U.S. Sen. Joe Manchin has said Attorney General William Barr has assured him that no additional inmates will be relocated to Gilmer or the federal prison at Hazelton. The inmates had been screened and had their temperatures checked several times, including before boarding their flight, after landing and after arriving at the Gilmer prison.
  Madison:  A majority of the state’s residents  still support the “safer at home” order issued by Gov. Tony Evers in response to the coronavirus pandemic , but that support is down from where it was six weeks ago, based on the latest Marquette University Law School poll released Tuesday. In March, 86% of respondents said the order that closed nonessential businesses, shut down schools and encouraged people to stay at home was appropriate. Only 10% said it was an overreaction. But in the latest poll, conducted between May  3 and Thursday, 69% said “safer at home” was appropriate, and 26% said it was an overreaction. The change is being driven by increasing partisan polarization, said pollster Charles Franklin. In March, over 75% of Republicans supported the shutdown. But in May, they are now evenly divided on it, while 90% of Democrats remain in favor. 
  Casper:  Another Powder River Basin coal mine has reduced its workforce in response to weak market conditions. Decker Coal Company furloughed 98 miners Friday, sending them home until May  26, according to a company statement. The Decker coal mine is in southern Montana, just north of the Wyoming line. The mine’s domestic customers stopped accepting shipments recently, the company told the Casper Star-Tribune. Nearly 400 coal miners in the Powder River Basin have been laid off as less electricity use during the coronavirus pandemic diminishes demand for coal-fired power. The Decker mine produced more than 1  million tons of coal and employed 164 workers in the first quarter of 2020, according to the U.S. Mining Safety and Health Administration. 
  From USA TODAY Network and wire reports 
 