As Florida lifted some of its  coronavirus  restrictions over the weekend, sunny weather beckoned crowds to gather at newly opened parks and beaches, where public officials approved the springtime outings as long as people wore masks and kept their distance.
  Over three days, more than 7,300 people showed up at Miami Beach parks without covering their mouths and noses, Miami Beach police said in a  statement on Facebook . Hundreds more didn’t maintain the mandated six feet of social distancing.
  The rule-breakers cost everyone the chance to enjoy the city’s popular beach at South Pointe Park, which the city closed again Monday after park rangers issued thousands of verbal warnings between Friday and Sunday, police said.
  “There is no way to effectively enforce social distancing when hundreds of individuals refuse to do so,” Miami Beach City Manager Jimmy Morales  told CNN .
  The scofflaws in the southern Florida city are hardly alone. People in many states have resisted guidelines that encourage or require face masks in public spaces to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus.
  The masks are hot, uncomfortable and annoying for many. Others consider the mandate to cover their faces a  government overreach . Escalating tension over the precaution has spurred protests, rebellions, fights and even a fatal shooting.
  Police  arrested  a man in Decatur, Ill., on Friday after he shoved a gas station clerk who insisted he wear a mask while paying for fuel on the first day of the state’s newly imposed rules that require people to cover their faces inside businesses.
  Officers in Michigan are  searching  for a man who allegedly wiped his nose on a Dollar Tree employee’s sleeve on Saturday after she told him he had to wear a mask to shop, the Detroit Free Press reported. And a man  shot and killed  a security guard at a Family Dollar in Michigan after the guard had an argument with a woman who refused to comply with the statewide executive order that requires people to wear masks inside shops, Genesee County Prosecutor David Leyton said at a news conference Monday.
  The small city of Stillwater, Okla., had to  revoke  a local order requiring residents to don face coverings inside stores and restaurants that reopened over the weekend after workers endured harassment and threats.
  Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine (R) similarly  reversed  a statewide edict to require masks because people “were not going to accept the government telling them what to do.”
  Even states that have largely embraced public health experts’ advice, such as California, have seen some rebellions over masks. In a San Diego suburb, a man  wore a Ku Klux Klan hood  to a grocery store in an apparent protest of the store’s mask requirement for shoppers. Meanwhile, the San Francisco police chief  barred  officers from wearing masks decorated with “Thin Blue Line” imagery.
  As many elected officials and doctors plead with the public to wear masks if they leave their homes, some politicians are leading by example in the other direction.
  Vice President Pence drew criticism last week when he violated a mask requirement during a visit to the Mayo Clinic. On Monday, he issued a mea culpa and acknowledged that he should have worn a mask despite being tested frequently for the virus.
  “I didn’t think it was necessary,” Pence  said Monday , “but I should have worn a mask at the Mayo Clinic.”
  Similarly, Missouri Gov. Mike Parsons (R) refused to sport a mask as he visited small businesses in his state. In photos, he stood barefaced among workers wearing masks. He told reporters at a news conference that he did not think the government should force people to cover their faces, despite guidelines from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that recommend face masks.
  “It really goes back to your personal responsibility,” Parsons told reporters, the  Kansas City Star  reported.
  He said that whether to wear a mask is a personal choice.
  “I chose not to,” he said.
  In Ohio, where protests against the state’s stay-at-home policies have  grown increasingly testy  in recent days, a state lawmaker justified his lack of a mask with a religious argument.
  “We’re created in the image and likeness of God,” state Rep. Nino Vitale (R-Ohio) said in a  video clip  he posted on Facebook. “When we think of image, do we think of a chest or our legs or our arms? We think of their face. I don’t want to cover people’s faces.”
  Although resistance to wearing masks appears to split along ideological lines in many instances, with protests against the measures organized largely by  conservative activists  and  championed by Republican lawmakers , polling has consistently indicated that most Americans support the social distancing precautions in place to prevent the spread of covid-19 and many have been willing to wear masks.
  Shortly after the  CDC recommended  that people wear masks in early April, more than half the respondents to an  ABC News-Ipsos poll  of people who ventured outside their homes reported wearing them. And although more Democrats reported using masks at that time, 47 percent of Republicans also said they were covering their faces.
  A recent  Washington Post-University of Maryland poll  found that 62 percent of Republicans and 72 percent of Democrats said state restrictions on businesses were “appropriate” to stem the coronavirus pandemic. Another April poll by  CBS News and YouGov  showed that only 43 percent of Republicans, and just 23 percent of people overall, support protesters of social distancing.
  And if social distancing policies continue as businesses reopen and people return to work, even some ardent skeptics may be persuaded to don a mask, said Robert Kahn, a law professor at the University of St. Thomas in Minneapolis who has studied Americans’ attitudes toward masks.
  “If I can go to work and the cost of marginal improvement in my life is wearing a mask, maybe Americans of both parties do accommodate ourselves to it,” Kahn  told The Washington Post last month .
  The resistance to masks by some has troubled public health experts, who consider the practice an important precaution for people who cannot distance themselves from others.
  Deborah Birx, the White House’s coronavirus response coordinator, expressed dismay on Sunday at images of protesters without masks standing close to one another inside the Michigan capitol building.
  “It’s devastatingly worrisome to me personally, because if they go home and infect their grandmother or their grandfather who has a co-morbid condition and they have a serious or a very — or an unfortunate outcome,” Birx said on “ Fox News Sunday ,” “they will feel guilty for the rest of their lives. So, we need to protect each other at the same time as we’re voicing our discontent.”
 