
  
  The US Food and Drug Administration gave emergency use approval to convalescent plasma as a treatment for coronavirus Sunday, but some experts say there is not a lot of solid data to support its use.
  Trump administration officials cited a Mayo Clinic-led study that showed a 35% improvement in survival among people given the highest doses of the treatment early on in their illness compared to those who were treated later. Reiner pointed out this is not the same as a randomized placebo-controlled clinical trial, medicine's gold standard, which can demonstrate whether the treatment really works better than not treating people.
  "While the data to date show some positive signals that convalescent plasma can be helpful in treating individuals with COVID-19, especially if given early in the trajectory of disease, we lack the randomized controlled trial data we need to better understand its utility in COVID-19 treatment," said Dr. Thomas File, president of the Infectious Diseases Society of America. "For this reason, IDSA supports the continued collection of data in randomized clinical trials to better understand the benefits of convalescent plasma treatment before authorizing its wider use in patients with COVID-19."
  Art Caplan, founding head of the Division of Medical Ethics at NYU School of Medicine, told CNN he did not think the evidence was sufficient for an emergency use authorization.
  At a White House briefing Sunday night, President Trump and Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar urged coronavirus survivors to donate plasma.
  Caplan said he's worried about whether there's a large enough supply of convalescent plasma, which relies on donations from Covid-19 survivors. Under an emergency use authorization, doctors will be more likely to give convalescent plasma without tracking data, so it will then be difficult to determine which donors have the most effective plasma, and which patients are the best candidates to receive it. 
  
  
  US Food and Drug Administration Commissioner Dr. Stephen Hahn says studies have shown convalescent plasma is safe and the treatment has been given to patients with infectious diseases for more than a hundred years.
  Emergency use authorization is not the same as full approval, but it will allow more people to try the treatment.
  "We are waiting for more data," Hahn said. "We are very pleased with these results."
  He described one Mayo Clinic-led study that showed that patients who got the highest doses of convalescent plasma were 35% more likely to survive that other patients, although the trial was not a randomized controlled trial – the gold standard for determining whether a treatment really works. The trial compared people who were treated earlier to those who were treated later – not people who were treated versus those who were not treated.
  Some researchers have said trials haven't shown clearly how well the treatment works.
  "We have seen a great deal of demand for this from doctors around the country," Hahn said
  The FDA has encouraged coronavirus survivors to donate their blood in the hope that immune system proteins they developed while fighting off infection will help newly infected patients.
  
  
  President Donald Trump told reporters Sunday he believed "political reasons" created a slowdown of approval for a coronavirus treatment at the Food and Drug Administration -- but said he "broke the logjam" over the last week.
  Trump's remarks amount to tacit confirmation that he applied pressure on the agency ahead of its announcement Sunday that it was issuing an emergency use authorization for convalescent plasma to treat Covid-19.
  He said he believed there were officials at the FDA and in the Department of Health and Human Services "that can see things being held up and wouldn't mind so much."
  Trump insisted his focus on treatments for coronavirus -- which has slowed the American economy and caused his poll numbers to sink -- was apolitical.
  Earlier in the briefing, Trump seemed enthusiastic when asked by a reporter from Fox News whether patients should have access to treatments or vaccines before they reach the end of trials.
  "We have all of these great, seemingly great answers that are ready to come out, but because of the process it takes -- can we use some of this early under right to try?" he asked, referring to legislation that allows patients access to drugs that are still in the investigational phase.
  FDA Commissioner Stephen Hahn declined to answer when asked by Jim Acosta as the briefing concluded whether there was pressure on him to approve the emergency use of convalescent plasma . 
  President Donald Trump said Sunday the emergency use authorization of convalescent plasma to treat Covid-19 patients was a "truly historic announcement" that will "save countless lives."
  On Sunday, Trump thanked Dr. Stephen Hahn, the Food and Drug Administration commissioner, saying the agency had really stepped up "especially over the last few days" in getting the authorization done.
  Last week, Trump accused some health officials of playing politics regarding the emergency authorization for convalescent plasma. When asked about the FDA not having granted one, Trump said the reason was political.
    
  The University of Kentucky began a second phase of Covid-19 testing Sunday, testing 5,500 students who belong to fraternities and sororities, according to a letter from the university’s president.
  The university  previously mandated  Covid-19 testing for all students on campus, offering testing between August 3 and 22.
  The second-phase of testing comes following a roughly 3% positivity rate for Covid-19 among fraternities and sororities in initial testing, approximately triple the roughly 1% positivity rate for the general student population. Of the 49 students currently in isolation following a positive Covid test, 30 come from two fraternity houses, university spokesman Jay Blanton said in a news release.
  In a letter written to the campus community and provided to CNN, University President Eli Capilouto cautioned against blaming the students for the higher positivity rate.
  "Retesting has always been a part of our restart plan," Capilouto wrote. "We will begin that process with the students for whom the data indicate retesting is most appropriate."
  Capilouto said that 21,000 students had been tested in the initial phase. The university lists its enrollment as "more than 30,000 students."
  According to the most recent data from Kentucky Public Health, the state has had a total of 43,529 Covid-19 cases since the pandemic began.
  NOTE:  These numbers were released by the state of Kentucky, and may not line up exactly in real time with  CNN’s database  drawn from Johns Hopkins University and the Covid Tracking Project. 
  Peru’s Health Ministry reported 3,706 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, bringing the total number of cases in the country to 594,326.
  The ministry reported 210 new deaths, bring the number of coronavirus-related deaths to 27,933 since the pandemic started.
  On Saturday, at least 13 people were killed in a stampede at a nightclub in Lima, as partygoers attempted to escape a police raid on the venue. Police were called to shut down an illegal party with more than 120 people in attendance.
  Social distancing measures are mandated in Peru, large social gatherings are banned and there is a nationwide 10 p.m. curfew to slow the spread of the virus.
  Brazil’s Health Ministry has reported 23,421 new Covid-19 cases over the past 24 hours, bringing the total number of cases in the country to 3.6 million.
  The ministry reported 494 new coronavirus deaths on Sunday, raising the country’s death toll to 114,744.
  Brazil is second only to the United States in the highest total number of coronavirus cases and deaths worldwide.
  
  
  University of Alabama President Stuart R. Bell asked students, faculty and staff to work together to follow safety protocols so the university can finish the fall semester with in-person classes. Bell said there will be consequences, including suspension, for not following the rules on and off campus.
  According to the letter, university police and the Tuscaloosa Police Department will partner to monitor bars, restaurants and off-campus housing to ensure the city's Covid-19 ordinances and university guidelines are followed.
  
  
  British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Sunday that it is "vitally important" to get children back in the classroom when schools reopen next week.
  Referring to comments made earlier Sunday by Chris Whitty, the UK's chief medical adviser, Johnson said it is "far more damaging" than the virus itself for pupils to stay out of school for any longer.
  The Prime Minister thanked school staff who have been making preparations for a full return in September and reiterated his previous statements about "the moral duty to reopen schools to all pupils safely."
  On Sunday, the chief medical officers and deputy chief medical officers of England, Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales released a statement on risks and benefits of schools and child care centers reopening.
  The statement also said international real-world evidence suggests that schools reopening have usually not been followed by a surge of Covid-19. 
 