California has declared an emergency over the coronavirus outbreak, as   that has been linked to two cases of the illness in the state.
  The first death in California related to coronavirus was confirmed Wednesday, while another fatality in Washington brought that state's death toll to 10.
  Congressional leaders have agreed on   to help fight the coronavirus that is headed to the House.
  The virus is now spreading more rapidly outside China, where the epidemic started, with mainland China recording just 119 new confirmed cases while hundreds of cases were reported globally.
  South Korea alone recorded an additional 516 cases of coronavirus Wednesday, bringing the total to 5,328 confirmed cases, the largest outbreak outside of mainland China.
  Governments around the world are introducing a range of measures to stop the spread of the disease. In Italy, where there have been more than 2,000 cases, all schools and colleges are shut for 10 days.
  
  
  
  Doha Madani
  Two Washington state residents are in critical condition with confirmed cases of coronavirus, according to public health officials. 
  Both men are King County residents in their 60s and had underlying health conditions, Seattle and King County Public Health announced Sunday. The two cases, which were confirmed by state lab testing, have brought the number of cases in Washington up to six. 
  A Washington man in his 50s — also with underlying health issues — became the first person in the U.S. to die of COVID-19, the disease associated with coronavirus,  
  NBC News: 2 more people in New York City are being tested for Coronavirus, according to the Department of Health.  Since yesterday an additional person was tested and found to be negative, bringing the number of negative cases to 9 so far.
  Doha Madani
  Delta Airlines announced Sunday that it would be temporarily suspending service from New York City to Milan, Italy, amid heightened coronavirus concerns. 
  The last of Delta's daily flights between John F. Kennedy Airport and Milan will depart Monday as the airline said it would be suspending the service until at least the first of May. Delta said that it has already put in place several strategies in response to the outbreak as it works alongside health officials. 
  Italy has more than 1,000 confirmed cases of the disease and at least 29 deaths as of Sunday. 
  Sakshi Venkatraman  and Ben Kesslen 
  People around the world have been given plenty of reasons in the past couple of years to cover up with face masks. In November, India  at schools due to toxic air pollution in the nation’s capital. Hong Kong put in place a ban on masks, which protesters used to  .
  And most recently, the spread of the new coronavirus has sparked a run on surgical masks, despite their shortcomings in stopping the virus.
  “It’s a trend,” one NYU freshman said. “Somehow it makes you look a bit better.”
  
  Dennis Romero
  As fears of  spread, "Saturday Night Live" lightened the moment by imagining what would happen if Democratic candidates for president elbowed into the leadership spotlight during a White House news conference.
  It started with Vice President Mike Pence, played by Beck Bennett, speaking about how President Donald Trump's administration, with him in charge of managing the crisis, is tackling the situation.
  "We’ve assembled a very experienced team of some of the best people left in government," he says.
  
  Doha Madani and Tim Stelloh
  Two presumptive positive cases of coronavirus have been confirmed in Rhode Island, state officials said Sunday. 
  A resident in his 40s tested positive after traveling to Italy in mid-February, according to the state Health Department. The case still needs to be confirmed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, but the person is being treated at a hospital under infection control protocols.
  A teenager who also traveled to Europe tested positive and is at home with mild symptoms, the Health Department said. A woman in her 30s who has mild symptoms and was on the trip is also being tested.
  The department said the 38 people who traveled to Italy with Saint Raphael Academy were told to stay home and self-monitor for two weeks.
  "We are not seeing widespread community transmission in Rhode Island, and the general level of risk for Rhode Islanders is still low," said Dr. Nicole Alexander-Scott, the department's director of health.
  Jane Weaver
  The family of the high school student in Snohomish County, Washington who tested   shared a statement Saturday through the  : 
  "Our child became ill with flu-like symptoms on Monday morning. We took the necessary steps to have him seen by medical professionals and to be tested for the flu. We didn’t learn of the testing of COVID-19 until Friday morning, after our now symptom-free child left for school. He promptly returned home before school started."
  "We are taking this situation very seriously. Please know that we have been following all guidance and instructions from both the healthcare providers that treated our son, as well the Snohomish Health District. We understand the concerns and anxiety raised, but we ask that the community and media please respect our family’s privacy."
  Reuters
  Art lovers were locked out of Paris's famous Louvre on Sunday as staff at the world’s most-visited museum held a meeting about the coronavirus outbreak.
  Long lines of disgruntled tourists snaked outside the museum which is home to Leonardo da Vinci’s Mona Lisa portrait and the Venus de Milo sculpture.
  A spokeswoman said the museum in central Paris was expected to open after the meeting between management, personnel and the staff doctor.
  She added museums were not covered by government orders to cancel and until further notice, all public gatherings indoors or in confined spaces with more than 5,000 people.
  ⚠ An informational meeting on the public health situation linked to   prevention measures following the ministerial instructions transmitted by the competent authorities has delayed the opening of the   on Sunday, March 1. The museum cannot open at the moment.  
  The government issued the orders on Saturday in a bid to contain the spread of the virus,  
 