(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s  the sign-up .)  
  Good evening. Here’s the latest. 
  1. The former Minneapolis police officer  who pinned George Floyd has been charged with third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter.
  The arrest of Derek Chauvin, who was seen on video pressing his knee into Mr. Floyd’s neck during an arrest, comes after days of escalating clashes between demonstrators and the police in Minneapolis and protests across the country.  Here’s the latest .
  Gov. Tim Walz of Minnesota expressed solidarity with the protesters but said that a return to order was needed to lift up the voices of “those who are expressing rage and anger and those who are demanding justice” and “not those who throw firebombs.” A curfew in Minneapolis is set for Friday and Saturday nights.
  Prosecutors said the investigation of three other officers at the scene of the incident is ongoing.
  2. Twitter said President Trump  violated its rules by posting a tweet suggesting that Minneapolis protesters could be shot.
  The platform said the president’s words — “when the looting starts, the shooting starts” — glorified violence,  the first time it had applied such a warning  on any public figure’s tweets. The decision to add the new warning labels was approved by Jack Dorsey, Twitter’s chief executive, after a late-night debate among company officials, according to a person with knowledge of the deliberations.
  Mr. Trump’s comments  stirred an outcry in Minnesota  and from his presumptive opponent in the November election, Joe Biden, who said, “It’s no time to encourage violence.”
  3. President Trump’s anger  toward China has reached a breaking point.
  The president said he would  end Hong Kong’s special relationship with the U.S. , including on trade and law enforcement, and withdraw from the World Health Organization, where the U.S. has been by far the largest funder.
  While the announcement came largely in response to Beijing’s move to implement broad new security powers over Hong Kong, Mr. Trump voiced a range of grievances against China at a Friday afternoon news conference, denouncing the country’s trade policy and its handling of the coronavirus outbreak.
  The decision to cut ties with the W.H.O. is the latest escalation of Mr. Trump’s efforts to blame China and the health organization for the spread of the virus and to deflect blame for his handling of the crisis.
  4. New York City is on track  to start  reopening on June 8 , Gov. Andrew Cuomo said, setting the stage for what promises to be a long and tentative recovery.
  Under the first phase of reopening, nonessential stores could open for curbside pickup, and nonessential construction and manufacturing could resume. The city has been under one of the country’s strictest lockdowns.
  Lately, the financial district in Lower Manhattan, normally packed with workers, has been as quiet as a backyard. Our architecture critic Michael Kimmelman  takes a virtual stroll  of the area’s parks, art and landmarks, like the Oculus, above, with an architect and longtime resident of the neighborhood.
  5. Temperature checks,  desk shields, above, and no public transit.
  These are among the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s  sweeping new recommendations  on the safest way for American employers reopening their offices to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.
  If followed, the guidelines would remake office life. Some companies may decide it’s easier to keep employees at home.
  Scientists are still trying to answer one of the biggest questions:  How much of the virus is needed for an infection to take root?  But a precise answer may be impossible, because it’s difficult to capture the moment of infection.
  6. There is widespread agreement  that the U.S. economy will soon begin to rebound from coronavirus lockdowns. The debate is  what shape it will take .
  Forecasters often label their expectations for a post-recession rebound with a “V” for rapid recovery, a “W” for a double-dip, or a Nike Swoosh, among other letters and symbols. But that’s hard to do this time around. 
  The recovery plans coming out of the U.S., Europe and China — the three biggest producers of planet-warming gases — vary widely.  What course they set will play a crucial role in fighting climate change .
  7. The Trump administration  has stepped up efforts to  seize land on the Mexican border  for President Trump’s border wall. Above, a section of the wall near Donna, Texas.
  Residents along the Rio Grande say the administration is taking advantage of the coronavirus pandemic and surveying land while people are confined indoors. In the first five months of the year, the federal government brought a flurry of lawsuits against landowners in South Texas to survey, seize and potentially begin construction on private property.
  8. There is plenty for fans to like about  “Chromatica,” Lady Gaga’s much-anticipated dance-pop record. In a round-table discussion,  our critics found it to be a mixed bag .
  The album “reminds us how easily Lady Gaga can coax the world onto the dance floor,” our pop music editor says. “But it feels overwhelmingly safe. We were promised jetpacks; we got parachutes.”
  Also out today is “Soft Spot,” a new album from  Daughters of Reykjavik . The all-woman hip-hop collective was mocked online and in Iceland’s news media, so they’re taking their message abroad.
  9. “It’s quite meditative  to watch another life form go about its day.”
  Layla Adanero started bird-watching from her backyard in London after she was furloughed from her job. She is among  a surge of new birders around the world , fueled by the pandemic and the necessity to stay close to home.
  On the topic of backyard activities: Have you ever wondered what makes line-dried laundry get that fresh smell? A group of atmospheric chemists discovered that  line-drying produces organic molecules  our noses might recognize from plants and perfumes.
  10. And finally,  dreaming of a park bench and a book.
  One of the things our Book Review team misses most this summer is the sight of readers in public — on stoops and under trees, solo or perched alongside a partner. Out of this wistfulness, our photo editor dove into the archives for  images of bygone summers , like the one above in Bryant Park in 1937.
  In the meantime, here are  13 new titles our editors  are looking forward to in June. Among them are an important gay civil rights history, the story of human migration, and a slew of summery novels from Kevin Kwan, J. Courtney Sullivan and Ottessa Moshfegh.
  Have a page-turning weekend.
  Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern. 
  Want to catch up on past briefings?  You can browse them here . 
  What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at  briefing@nytimes.com . 
 