Good morning, NBC News readers.
  A major American city erupted in a third night of violence over the death of a black man in police custody, the Trump-Twitter feud just went to another level, and Gov. Andrew Cuomo says if you love New York, wear a mask.
  Here's what we're watching this Friday morning.
  A Minneapolis  Thursday night as protests over the  raged on for a third night.
  Protesters late Thursday focused their attention on the police department's 3rd Precinct, the base of   after Floyd's death in their custody Monday.
  Mayor Jacob Frey said in an   Friday that he made the decision to pull police out of the precinct. Demonstrators subsequently forcibly entered the building and "ignited several fires," a department spokesman said.
  Earlier Thursday, Gov. Tim Walz signed an executive order activating the National Guard.
  However, NBC News correspondents reporting from the scene of the precinct fire Thursday evening said they saw  .
  As some of the protests and looting spread across the Twin Cities, St. Paul Mayor Melvin Carter urged people to stay home.
  "Please keep the focus on George Floyd, on advancing our movement, and on preventing this from ever happening again. We can all be in that fight together,"  Thursday.
  Demonstrations spread across the country to other cities last night — including New York and Los Angeles.
  In Louisville, Kentucky, where Breonna Taylor was killed by police during a raid at her home,  . Police were not involved in the shootings and the circumstances around them were not immediately clear, officials said.
  A  capturing the moment Floyd was detained by police appears to show  .
  But while activists are calling for murder charges in Floyd's death, criminal justice experts say that they are  .
  While the fires were burning in Minneapolis Thursday night,  via his formerly favorite social media platform: Twitter.
  The president blamed local leadership for the unrest and threatening to deploy National Guard troops that were already in position in the Twin Cities.
  "I can't stand back & watch this happen to a great American City, Minneapolis," the  .
  He went on to threaten that "when the looting starts, the shooting starts."
  Twitter swiftly slapped a warning on the post, saying the  .
  It was the latest salvo in the ongoing feud between the president and the social media giant that has escalated this week.
  Earlier Thursday,  aimed at regulating what he called social media companies  
  The move came days after Twitter added  for the first time.
  However,  that Trump's executive order likely won't accomplish much and would be bad public policy.
  New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo threw his weight Thursday behind businesses eager to stop the spread of the coronavirus by signing an executive order authorizing them to  or other face covering.
  The governor's move comes in the wake of several well-publicized confrontations between companies that require face coverings and customers who have refused to follow orders.
  "That store owner has a right to protect himself," Cuomo said at his daily coronavirus briefing.
  The move comes as workers in vacation spots, like Moab, Utah,  .
  "I've definitely heard locals grumble about tourists not wearing masks, as if they're on vacation, so they're on vacation from the coronavirus, as well," one local said.
  A key source of material for North Korea's nuclear program  , according to an upcoming report based on recent satellite photos that underscores the persistence of a top threat to U.S. national security, NBC News' Andrea Mitchell and Ken Dilanian report.
  In a preview of their analysis obtained exclusively by NBC News, North Korea experts Joseph S. Bermudez Jr. and Victor Cha say imagery taken in March depicts ongoing activity at the Pyongsan Uranium Concentrate Plant, which is believed to produce so-called yellowcake uranium, a precursor of nuclear fuel.
  Larry Kramer was a true LGBT radical. And not just for his AIDS activism,  .
  Here are the   for Father's Day.
  
  —  responding to tweets from President Trump criticizing his leadership.
  OK, that was a lot of tough news for a Friday morning.
  Now everyone could probably use a walk.
  Here are some tips from our Better editors on how turn your quarantine  .
  "Walking allows you to see other people and say hello at a safe distance," says Michele Stanten, an ACE-certified trainer and author of "Walk Off Weight."
  "That brief social interaction is enough to boost your mood and make you smile."
  Thanks for reading the Morning Rundown.
  I really hope you can go for that walk and have a peaceful weekend.
  If you have any comments — likes, dislikes — drop me an email at:  If you're a fan, please forward it to your family and friends. They can sign-up  
  Thanks, Petra Cahill
  Petra Cahill is a senior editor and writer for NBC News Digital. She writes NBC News' Morning Rundown newsletter. 
 