WASHINGTON – The war of words between House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and President Donald Trump escalated Wednesday as the California Democrat defended  calling the president "morbidly obese,"  explaining she was giving him a dose of his own medicine. 
  At her Wednesday news conference, Pelosi said her criticism of the  president taking hydroxychloroquine , a drug that has not been proven to work against the coronavirus, was meant to be "factual" in a "very sympathetic way." 
  On Monday, Pelosi said it was "not a good idea" for the  president to be taking hydroxychloroquine  because it can pose a risk for people with heart conditions and he is "morbidly obese." Earlier that same day, the president disclosed that he was taking the drug for more than a week to prevent infection from the coronavirus – a revelation that stunned health experts due to the drug's uncertain effects on the virus. 
  Trump hit back at Pelosi  Tuesday, calling her a "waste of time." 
  "I gave him a dose of his own medicine," Pelosi said of the president, who frequently lashes out at those who disagree or criticize him. 
  She added that she was "only quoting what doctors had said about him, so I was being factual in a very sympathetic way" because "we don't want our president taking something that could be dangerous."
  'I think she's a waste of time': Trump dismisses Nancy Pelosi calling him 'morbidly obese' 
  More: Hydroxychloroquine and coronavirus: Everything to know about the drug Trump says he's taking 
  Despite the lack of clinical testing, Trump touted the drug for use against the virus for more than a month, saying he had a "feeling" it was effective and telling Americans, "What do you have to lose? Take it."
  But on April 24, the Food and Drug Administration said the drug has "not been shown to be safe and effective for treating or preventing COVID-19" and that it should not be used "outside of the hospital setting or a clinical trial due to risk of heart rhythm problems." 
  During the press conference, Pelosi also compared the president to a child with dog poop on his shoes.
  "It's like a child that comes in with mud on their pants or something," Pelosi said of Trump's conduct. "He comes in with doggy doo on his shoes and everybody who works with him has that on their shoes, too."
  She continued: "The things he says are so inappropriate for a president of the United States, comments he makes about women," Pelosi said, noting that the president is catering to his base. "There's a market for it obviously and that's what he plays to." 
  Contributing: William Cummings 
  More: Trump says he's taking hydroxychloroquine, the drug he touted as coronavirus treatment, despite FDA warnings 
 