Ben Kamisar
  WASHINGTON — A new ad attacking Kansas Republican Kris Kobach hit the airwaves Tuesday as the state's GOP Senate primary continues to heat up. 
  The  new spot from the Keep Kansas Great PAC  focuses on Kobach's 2018 loss as the Republican gubernatorial candidate, arguing "Kris Kobach will lose again, and the liberal radicals will be back in charge."  
  And it tries to hit Kobach with guilt-by-association by attacking the conservative Club for Growth, which is running ads attacking Kobach's top Republican rival, U.S. Rep. Roger Marshall. 
  That attack revisits the Club's 2016 decision to run ads against President Trump, a move that sparked a feud with the future president. In 2015 comments repeated in the ad, Trump called the group backing Kobach "a fraud" and "crooked." 
  But the Club has emerged during the Trump administration as an ally of Trump's — Club for Growth President David McIntosh told "Meet the Press" last August that the group's attacks came during the heat of the GOP presidential primary, when it was supporting Texas Sen. Ted Cruz, and that it is happy with how Trump has governed as a "free-market conservative." 
  The heated spot is just the latest example of the contentious nature of the GOP primary as the party gears up to likely face the well-funded Democratic state Sen. Barbara Bollier, the Democratic front-runner. 
  Last week, the  Kansas City Star broke the news  that the state Republican Party asked two other candidates — state Sen. President Susan Wagle and former Johnson County Commissioner Dave Lindstrom — to drop out.
  Kansas Republican chair Mike Kuckelman said  in a radio interview on KMCO  that he made the "difficult decision" because he felt he "had to act" to keep the seat in Republican hands and that neither candidate had a path to victory. 
  "We've learned from other elections that having names on the ballot that can't win the race, they can affect the outcome of it," he said. 
  Kobach responded to the news by blasting "party elites" for trying to put their thumb on the scale. 
  Grassroots Republicans should be outraged. Our next Senator will be chosen by the people of Kansas -- not the party elites. The Chairman's attempted intervention into the GOP primary is inappropriate. And his reasoning is questionable at best.  #KSSEN  1/  https://t.co/GmihWcNvGJ 
  And after Kobach wrote a letter asking Marshall to repudiate the state party's move, Marshall responded with a letter of his own that warned that "We've seen the consequences of a Democrat administration at the state level when we nominated a person who can't win (2018)," a clear reference to Kobach's failed 2018 gubernatorial bid. 
  In response to  @KrisKobach1787 's letter: #kssen   #ksleg   pic.twitter.com/uSWkkuL95f 
  As of now, the primary isn't scheduled until August.
 