
  
  Broadway shows in New York City will suspend all performances “immediately” through April 12, according to The Broadway League, a national trade association for the Broadway industry. 
  The move comes in “support of the health and well-being of the theatre going public, as well as those who work in the theatre industry,” the association said.   
  Earlier today, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo announced that  Broadway theaters would be required to have maximum capacity  of 50% of total seating.
  
  
  
  Beginning at 4:30 p.m. ET, the Supreme Court building will be closed to the public until further notice, according to a note sent out by the court's public information officer.
  The building will remain open for official business, and case filing deadlines are not extended under Rule 30.1, according to the statement.
  Rule 30.1 of the " Rules of the Supreme Court " reads:
  
  
  The National Football League has announced the cancellation of its annual league meetings that were scheduled to start on March 29 in Palm Beach, Florida.
  NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell’s statement does not address April’s annual NFL Draft, set to take place in Las Vegas, Nevada.
  
  
  Los Angeles City Hall will close to all non-city hall employees, Mayor Eric Garcetti announced at a news conference.
  All large public events have been canceled or postponed, and meetings will move to video conferencing until the emergency ends, the mayor said. 
  Additional hand washing and sanitizing stations are being set up in public buildings and all non-essential travel is being stopped.
  Noting that Los Angeles has seen earthquakes, unrest, and fires, the mayor expressed his confidence that the city will survive this outbreak as well. He called on the public to take part, saying “We are all first responders in this emergency.”
  
  
  Miami Mayor Francis Suarez has gone into self-quarantine after he was in the room with Brazil's president and his entourage, according to a video message that was played during a news conference. 
  In the recorded video message, Suarez said he was in the same room as Brazil’s President Jair Bolsonaro and his entourage. Suarez said he feels well, but he has taken this step out of an abundance of caution.
  More on this : Concerns arose among political officials after a  Brazilian government aide tested positive for coronavirus . 
  Fabio Wajngarten, Brazilian president's press secretary, tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday, according an official statement from the Brazilian president’s office, Thursday.
  The health of the Brazilian president is being monitored.
  Wajngarten was with Bolsonaro on last weekend’s US trip, during which the Brazilian president dined with President Trump at Mar-a-Largo. Wajngarten posted a picture of himself with Trump on Instagram a few days ago.
  
  
  New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo announced today that the state is banning all gatherings of more than 500 people.
  He said that for gatherings of 0-500, they are reducing the occupancy by 50%. "So 50% of your seated capacity is the new capacity for your facility."
  He said the mandate goes into effect 5:00 p.m. ET on Friday.
  School districts in at least five states have announced long-term school closures for K-12 public school students.
  That means 403,233 students will be out of school over the coming days.
  Here's we know about the closures:
   
  
  
  John Feltz, director of the Transport Workers Union train division — which represents workers at Amtrak, seven regional passenger rail lines, and three major freight rail lines — says workers are very concerned about potentially contracting coronavirus or losing their jobs. 
  The concern is particularly strong among coach cleaners who do the disinfecting of trains. He said they’ve been given protective gear like gloves, “but you never know what could happen at any time.”  
  He said rail companies may look to labor for cost savings. “If they feel they’re losing money, the first place they cut on is labor.” 
   
  New York has 328 cases of coronavirus, with 112 new cases, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo announced.
  Here's where the cases are located in the state: 
  
  
 