Melissa Holzberg and Liz Brown-Kaiser
  WASHINGTON — Presumptive Democratic nominee Joe Biden’s self-declared timeline for announcing his V.P. pick is inching closer. But if Biden sticks to the first week of August, he’ll be making his selection public about two weeks before the Democratic convention — that’s earlier than most recent nominees. 
  Both former President Obama and President Trump  announced Biden  and  Vice President Pence  as their running mates just three days before the  2008 Democratic convention  and  2016 Republican convention  respectively. 
  2012 GOP nominee Mitt Romney made the decision a bit earlier: he named then-Rep. Paul Ryan on  Aug. 10  and the convention began Aug. 27. 
  The woman Biden chooses will make her address to the Democratic convention sometime between Aug. 17 and Aug. 20. The less time there is between the pick going public and that speech could mean less time for opposition research to drop, but also less time for party enthusiasm to build. 
  Here’s what some contenders have been up to this week:
  Sen. Kamala Harris:  After Biden said on MSNBC that  four Black women are on his shortlist  (his campaign later clarified that that was not exhaustive), Harris also took to the airwaves. Asked if she’s one of those Black women, she deflected, saying, “I’m honored to be in the conversation.”
  “I am not going to speak for the vice president,” she said Tuesday. “I’m going to do everything in my power to make sure Joe Biden is elected the next president of the United States.”
  While Harris has been quieter than others in promoting herself for the job, she made clear Tuesday that she intends to be a strong part of the get-out-the-vote effort. 
  “It concerns me when we see the polling and people get a little happy and at least a little comfortable with it,” she said. “We first have to win, and that’s going to be about encouraging people to vote, registering people to vote, fighting against those states that are suppressing voters’ ability to get to the polls.”
  Rep. Karen Bass:  While the California congresswoman doesn’t have the same name recognition as others on the short list, there’s been murmurings that she could be an  alternative to Harris . 
  On Friday, Bass weighed in on that idea and made it clear she wanted no part of it: 
  “Senator Kamala Harris has spent her entire life fighting for the people. I would never want to be labeled the ‘anti-Kamala Harris.’ We’re fortunate to have had her as Attorney General and now as Senator. She would be an excellent VP and the same goes for anyone else on the list,”  Bass tweeted.  
  Asked about her own experience with the veep vetting process on MSNBC Tuesday, Bass kept her V.P. ambitions to herself, but said she’d like to see a woman of color on the ticket. 
  “Of course I would love to see him appoint a woman of color as his running mate, but like he said, he is going to make sure that his administration on every level looks like America, and I think that that is absolutely important and sufficient at this time,” she said. 
  Sen. Elizabeth Warren:  The Massachusetts senator has had an undeniable impact on Biden’s policy plans since he became the presumptive nominee, most recently  working with the Biden camp to formulate  one of the pillars of his “Build Back Better” economic plan.  
  And on Tuesday, Warren highlighted Biden’s ability to lead the country’s economic recovery through the coronavirus pandemic. 
  “His plan is both economically sound and meets people where they are at a human level. It's Joe Biden at his best, in my view,” she said.
  Sen. Tammy Duckworth:  Duckworth, a woman of color, went on offense against President Trump’s handling of race issues during an Everytown for Gun Safety forum this week and her willingness to do so could prove beneficial as a running mate.
  “He is using racist rhetoric against Asian Americans to distract the American people from his utter failure to deal with this pandemic from the very beginning,” Duckworth said. “Don't fall for it, don't fall for his racist rhetoric and don't let people fall for it because he is trying to distract all of us.” 
  On Tuesday during an interview on MSNBC, Duckworth also reaffirmed her commitment to help Biden in any way.
  “If he said, ‘Tammy, go sweep floors in a V.A. hospital’, I would go do that because we have that many crises in front of us we have to address.” 
  Check out the NBC News political unit’s coverage of the veepstakes  here. 
 