No task force members are currently expected to join President Trump at today's 5 p.m. ET news conference, a person familiar with the plan tells CNN, who cautioned that could change. Trump is  expected to hold these briefings a few times a week  but not on a daily basis like he was earlier in the pandemic.
  There's still an internal split over whether Trump should take the stage, with some aides reminding others how hard they fought to convince Trump to end the briefings after the  disastrous one in April about disinfectants. 
  It caused some confusion inside the West Wing over whether the press secretary should hold a separate briefing as well given the President's will obviously overshadow hers.
  CNN's Sanjay Gupta reported earlier that as of early Tuesday morning, Dr. Anthony Fauci told CNN that he and Dr. Deborah Birx have still not been told whether they will be in attendance at today’s briefing at the White House.
  Some background:  Trump took a pair of  steps Monday  that seemed to offer quiet acknowledgment that the coronavirus strategy he has adopted for the past several weeks — to largely ignore the pandemic — has wounded him politically and failed to contain the raging crisis.
  In the Oval Office for a meeting with lawmakers, Trump announced he would soon resume regular public briefings after discontinuing them in April and declaring them a waste of time.
  Dr. Sanjay Gupta reports: 
  
  British public sector workers are getting a pay rise in recognition for their work during the pandemic -- but nurses are not included. 
  The UK government announced Tuesday that it will give above-inflation pay rises to 900,000 public workers including teachers, police officers, doctors and dentists, and senior civil servants. 
  Teachers will get the highest rise at 3.1%, while doctors can expect a 2.8% hike, the government said. It added that the two groups will get the biggest pay hikes in recognition of “their efforts on the frontline during the battle against COVID-19.”
  In the announcement, the government said nurses and other health care workers are excluded from the pay rises, because their salaries have already been boosted under a three-year deal agreed in 2018. That argument did not go down well with nurses and their supporters. 
  Laura Duffell, a matron nurse at the King's College Hospital in London said she and her colleagues were left in shock at Tuesday's announcement that nurses won't be included in the pay rises. "If anything, we thought we'd be on top of the list," she said. "You can feel the severe disappointment ... it's almost proving to us that we're not as appreciated as we had hoped." 
  Earlier this month, the Royal College of Nursing (RCN), a nurses’ trade union, sent an open letter to the the UK treasury chief Rishi Sunak, demanding more money for nurses. It said that the deal agreed in 2018 was “a start after years of pay capping and freezes but did not restore the value lost over a longer period. More must now be done.” 
  Many nurses and their supporters  complained  on  Twitter  about the government encouraging the public to applaud for health care workers every Thursday during the peak of the pandemic, but stopping short of delivering an actual pay rise. 
  "The clapping that keeps being referred to as a show of the appreciation for nurses in the NHS. I think it has almost left really bitter taste in people's mouths now," Duffell said. She added:
  Nurses' salaries start just below £25,000 ($30,000) a year in the UK. That's about £5,000 ($6,000) below the country’s median salary. With more experience, pay for most can rise to around £37,000 a year. 
  "The applause and kind words were a short-term morale boost for many health workers, but now it is time to begin these pay discussions without delay," the union said in the letter.
  The union added that the low pay is a major reason for many to leave the profession. Last week, the RCN released a survey that said that 36% of nurses are considering quitting -- a big jump from the 27% last year.
  The union said that of those thinking of leaving, 61% said pay is a factor, while 44% said they consider quitting because of the way they were treated during the pandemic.
  The UK cannot afford to lose nurses -- there are currently around 40,000 nursing vacancies in England alone.
  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s handling of the coronavirus crisis was thrown into further disarray Tuesday morning when a parliamentary committee voted down a government order for restaurants to close their doors. 
  It is the second reprieve in four days for Israel’s restauranteurs, who had successfully lobbied on Friday to postpone the emergency order -- which seeks to close many indoor and outdoor locations, including restaurants, in an attempt to contain the surging number of coronavirus cases -- until 5am Tuesday.
  Many restaurant and café owners defied the closure order Tuesday morning and opened for business as usual, and looked vindicated a few hours later when the Knesset’s coronavirus committee allowed them to remain open with limited seating. 
  In open defiance of her Likud party and Prime Minister Netanyahu, committee head, MK Yifat Shasha-Biton, said her decision was based on epidemiological data which showed restaurants are not a major source of infection.
  Restaurant owners were furious when the initial closure order was announced last week, protesting they had already purchased stock for weekend customers, which led the government to reverse course and give them them three more days to stay open. 
  Moshiko Gamlieli, head chef at Mona restaurant in Jerusalem, said it was very difficult for businesses to operate with policy appearing to change day by day. “To open and close a restaurant on the same day costs 10,000 shekels (approx. $2,920). We need a long-term solution. We need to know how things are going to be until the end of the year,” he said.
  
  Karma Quick-Panwala, who describes herself as severely hard of hearing, relies on lip reading to communicate. She was midway through her pregnancy when the Covid-19 crisis began, and became concerned she wouldn't be able to communicate with doctors and nurses when they were wearing protective masks.
  "I like to say lip reading is my superpower and masks are my kryptonite," said Quick-Panwala. "I'm completely cut off from communication unless I have someone come speak to me personally so that I can lip read to understand what's being said. I knew right away I was going to need some form of communication access."
  
  That's where Isabella Appell, 17, comes in. The high school junior from Thousand Oaks, California, has been making face masks since the coronavirus pandemic began. 
  Appell is not hard of hearing, but said she has always been interested in learning sign language and is part of several Facebook groups for deaf people.
  "I noticed that there were a lot of comments about how scary it was for them right now and how hard it was for them to communicate," said Appell. "I started researching on how I could accommodate these masks for everybody."
  Appell created  Talking Masks , a small venture that makes masks featuring a clear plastic window. She cuts the fabric from a template she created, then sews the masks and inserts a piece of clear plastic vinyl over the mouth. She applies a de-fogging spray to the final product, so it doesn't steam up when in use.
  
  
  
  LinkedIn has become the latest company to announce job cuts due to the coronavirus pandemic. The company said today will lay off about 960 jobs -- roughly 6% of its global workforce.
  The professional networking website "is not immune to the effects of the global pandemic," CEO Ryan Roslansky wrote in a  note to staff  posted publicly on the platform. He added that the company has been hurt "as fewer companies, including ours, need to hire at the same volume they did previously."
  "I want you to know these are the only layoffs we are planning," Roslansky wrote, adding that the cuts would affect LinkedIn's global sales and talent acquisition units.
  In the United States alone at least  3.7 million jobs  have disappeared as a result of the pandemic. Many major tech companies  have avoided the brunt of the fallout , as worldwide work-from-home requirements create more demand for their products. But LinkedIn's business model revolves around helping people search for jobs, connect with other professionals and build their resumes -- all features that have lost value as companies cut workers and freeze hiring.
  Read more here .
  
  California appeared to be moving in the right direction when it came to Covid-19. It was the first state to impose a stay-at-home order on March 19. Less than two months later, on May 8, the numbers had fallen enough that the state started the first phase of reopening.
  California Gov. Gavin Newsom told his citizens, " You have bent the curve ."
  But then Memorial Day came around. By early June the numbers started creeping back up. The seven-day average for daily coronavirus cases totaled more than 2,600. Then they skyrocketed.
  By July 11, the seven-day average had risen to 9,400 new cases of coronavirus per day, a more than 250% increase. The numbers fluctuate daily but the trend shows California is in surge. 
  By July 13, Newsom ordered the shutdown of bars, indoor dining, movie theaters, wineries and some other businesses across the state again. So what went wrong?
  Anne Rimoin, an epidemiology professor at the University of California Los Angeles, says the answer is simple. Some governments and people became complacent.
  
  Spain hoped its beaches would be the “safest holiday destination” in Europe this summer. Now, at the height of the tourist season, Barcelona and its surrounding areas are in the grip of a fresh coronavirus outbreak.  
  Almost 3,000 new infections were found in the Catalonia region over the weekend. Local officials urged the roughly 3 million residents of the Barcelona area to stay home on Saturday, but stopped short of making that mandatory. The next day, thousands flocked to the beach and many left for their summer holiday homes.
  “It wasn’t clear. People can go outside Barcelona, but the recommendation is also to stay at home. You can go to the beach but you have to wear a mask. But if you are in a terrace, you don’t have to wear it,” said Barcelona resident Carolina Fernandez.
  Epidemiologists say Barcelona's spike is a prime example of what happens when virus monitoring systems are neglected and government mandates aren’t clear. 
  “Why is it happening? Because the government did not introduce appropriate contact tracing,” epidemiologist Helen Legido-Quiqley told CNN.
  By her estimate, Catalonia would need at least 2,000 contact tracers that should have been hired and trained during the previous lockdown. She warned that it would now be much more costly to impose a second lockdown.
  “We had three months to prepare and they have not done it,” she said, adding:
  Marti Angladan, a spokesperson for Catalonia’s government, admitted that the region needs to double the number of contact tracers.
  “We should have doubled this figure. And we are trying to do so. But bear in mind, that we were readying ourselves for an outbreak at the end of October, September,” he told CNN. “[This is] much earlier than expected. We thought, we’d been told by experts, that the high temperatures would slow down, would calm down the virus.”
  No such luck for Barcelona. The sunshine is not stopping the virus -- but it is still drawing in tourists.
  Stepping off a plane Monday, British visitor Graham Parker was nonplussed by news of the outbreak. “If you’re going to catch it, you catch it here or in the UK,” he told CNN. “Just be careful, keep your distance, use face masks.”
  
  For the first time in six weeks, the Indian Union territory of Delhi registered fewer than 1,000 new cases of the novel coronavirus in a 24-hour period.
  The chief minister of the region reported Monday night that the region recorded 954 cases.
  
  The last time  new cases were below period quadruple digits was June 1. The daily caseload peaked on June 24, with 3,788 cases identified in a single day.
  Delhi, which includes the Indian capital New Delhi, has been one of the country's hardest-hit regions. More than 123,000 cases have been confirmed there, killing at least 3,663 people, and it has 15,166 active cases.  
  India is dealing with one of the world's worst coronavirus outbreaks. The country surpassed 1 million cases last week, trailing only the United States and Brazil in terms of the total number of patients identified throughout the pandemic.
  Delhi is the third worst-affected region in the country after western Maharashtra state and southern Tamil Nadu state, which have over 318,000 and 175,000 total confirmed cases respectively, according to the country’s health ministry. 
  As of Tuesday morning there, India had confirmed 1,155,191 cases of Covid-19. Of those, 402,529 are active cases. More than 28,084 people have died.
  
  More Americans  are testing positive for  coronavirus  all over the US at record-breaking numbers and the surge is slowing down testing.
  Labs across the country are now facing what seems like an almost "infinite" demand, one expert says.
  "We really do need to improve our turnaround times, primarily in areas and counties of outbreaks," Adm. Brett Giroir, a White House coronavirus task force member, said.
  Diagnostic labs are feeling the effects of the spike in cases, with a leading commercial lab saying testing results can now take up to two weeks -- up from its previous one-week estimate just days ago.
  The delays come even as the labs work to scale up their capacity, hoping to be able to perform about 150,000 tests each day by the end of July, Quest Diagnostics said in a  news release .
  Demand is even higher in the South, Southwest and West regions of the US, Quest said.
  And the pandemic is still in its early stages, said  Michael Osterholm,  director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota.
  Read more:  
  
  
 