Get all the latest news on  coronavirus  and more delivered daily to your inbox.  Sign up here . 
  Less than a day after  President Trump  mentioned at a  coronavirus  press briefing that he received "a nice note" from  North Korean  leader  Kim Jong Un , the remote country denied any recent correspondence between the two.
  The president made the comments during a press briefing on  COVID-19  Saturday, where he added that the U.S. would have been at  war  with  North Korea  if he had not been elected.
  “I received a nice note from him recently. It was a nice note," Trump said. "I think we’re doing fine.”
  NORTH KOREA'S KIM JONG UN MISSING AT 'DAY OF THE SUN' HONORS AS NATION INSISTS NO CORONAVIRUS CASES 
  North Korea’s Foreign Ministry said in a statement Sunday carried by state media outlet Korean Central News Agency there was no letter addressed to Trump recently by “the supreme leadership,” a reference to Kim.
  "We cannot know for sure whether the U.S. president reminisced about past correspondence, but our leadership did not send any letter to the U.S. president recently," KCNA said, according to  South Korea's Yonhap News Agency .
  State media added it would "look into the matter" as to why U.S. leadership released the "ungrounded" story into the media.
  “The relations between the top leaders of (North Korea) and the U.S. are not an issue to be taken up just for diversion nor it should be misused for meeting selfish purposes,”  the statement said .
  In March, North Korea said  Trump sent a personal letter to Kim offering cooperation  against the coronavirus pandemic.
  At the time, Kim’s sister and senior official Kim Yo Jong said her brother appreciated the letter during this time of “big difficulties and challenges,” and said Trump explained his plan to “propel the relations between the two countries ... and expressed his intent to render cooperation in the anti-epidemic work."
  A senior Trump administration official said at the time that Trump sent a letter to Kim that was consistent with the president's efforts to engage global leaders during the pandemic.
  WHAT COUNTRIES HAVE NOT DECLARED ANY KNOWN CASES OF CORONAVIRUS? 
  Kim and Trump have met three times and exchanged letters and envoys on many occasions since 2018 when they began talks on North Korea's nuclear weapons program.
  The nuclear diplomacy has made little headway since the breakdown of their second summit in Vietnam in early 2019 when Trump rebuffed Kim’s calls for sweeping sanctions relief in return for a partial denuclearization step.
  On Saturday he said he has "a good relationship" with Kim" and that North Korea has been testing short-range missiles for "a long time."
  "We're doing just fine with North Korea. Just fine," the president said. "We'll see how it all ends up."
  CLICK HERE FOR FULL CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE 
  The Hermit Kingdom has  repeatedly said there hasn’t been a single case  of COVID-19 on its soil  but has implemented social distancing measures .
  CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP   
  Questions also swirled over Kim  after he was apparently absent  from Hermit Kingdom's most important holiday, April 15, the birthday of the country's first dictator, known as the “Day of the Sun.” While concerns about coronavirus may have resulted in quieter celebrations this year, some observers noted Kim may want to highlight his own destiny instead of focusing on the past.
  As of Sunday morning,  there were at least  2,355,676 positive cases of  COVID-19  and at least 162,032 deaths worldwide, according to  Johns Hopkins University .
  Fox News' Stephen Sorace and the Associated Press contributed to this report. 
 