Gov. Larry Hogan on Tuesday announced that Maryland is ready to reopen movie theaters, begin holding concerts and expand the size of religious gatherings as he granted permission for a modified third phase of  coronavirus  recovery to begin at 5 p.m. Friday.
  Citing improving infection rates, the declining use of intensive care beds and expanded testing availability, Hogan said it is safe to lift more of the social restrictions that have been in place since March.
  “We have crushed the curve and saved lives,” Hogan (R) said at a news conference, adding that not all activities have permission to resume. “We’re just slowly entering Phase 3 and we’re going to see how that goes.”
  Hogan reiterated that local governments have the power to decide how much to reopen and can move at a slower pace than the state. It wasn’t immediately clear which jurisdictions would proceed with the loosened ­restrictions.
  Montgomery County Executive Marc Elrich (D) said in a statement Tuesday evening that Hogan’s announcement “has again taken us by surprise.”
  Elrich said the county will review Hogan’s order “to determine the best way to move forward for our residents and businesses while protecting the public health.”
  Montgomery, which has the state’s second-highest number of cases after Prince George’s County, typically has lagged  behind the state in lifting pandemic restrictions. Spokespeople for Prince George’s County Executive Angela Alsobrooks (D) did not respond to a request for comment Tuesday evening.
  Hogan previously had said the state would only enter Phase 3 when a vaccine for the novel coronavirus was available. He said his plan has evolved since it was released in April and that the state’s improving metrics suggest Maryland can move forward from the second phase, where it has stayed for more than two months.
  Under Hogan’s plan, movie theaters and concert venues may open at 50 percent capacity, or with 100 people indoors, whichever is less. Outdoor events are capped at 50 percent capacity or 250 people. Retail establishments and houses of worship can operate at 75 percent capacity, up from 50 percent.
  Maryland’s test positivity rate has stayed below 5 percent for 68 consecutive days, Hogan said, down from a rate of 26 percent at the peak of the pandemic in April. Hospitalizations, deaths and the case count have also consistently declined.
  As the state battles the virus, Hogan said, “it is also important that we continue to fight to protect and fight for the health of our economy, the health of our small-business community and our struggling Maryland families by continuing to push to safely reopen our economy.”
  Hogan also criticized eight counties, including Montgomery and Prince George’s, for submitting reopening plans that did not include options for any students to return to school in person this fall.
  While Hogan announced the lifting of restrictions, Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam (D) said earlier in the day that he will leave tighter social and economic restrictions in place in eastern Virginia through the Labor Day weekend. He said loosened restrictions ahead of holiday activities could worsen the spread of the virus.
  “I know a lot of folks want to get things back open on Labor Day,” Northam said in a news conference. But he noted that the Memorial Day and Independence Day holidays both led to case increases, particularly in the Hampton Roads beach communities.
  “We don’t want to repeat that as the summer draws to a close,” Northam said.
  If infection rates hold steady through the weekend, Northam said he will consider lifting some of the tighter restrictions in that part of the state.
  While the rest of Virginia is in a third phase of coronavirus restrictions, Northam tightened policies in the Hampton Roads region at the end of July because of a spike in infections. He reduced indoor dining in restaurants to 50 percent of capacity, imposed a 10 p.m. cutoff for alcohol and banned gatherings of more than 50 people.
  The percentage of positive test results in that region has since declined  but, at nearly 9 percent,  is still higher than the statewide average of about 7 percent.
  Northam said he is concerned about a rise in cases in rural southwestern Virginia, where the average of 220 new cases a day rivals numbers in far more populous Northern Virginia.
  “This is especially concerning for a region where there are fewer hospitals,” he said.
  He also noted recent reports of outbreaks on college and university campuses around the state as students return for the  fall.
  “We’re watching this very closely,” he said, noting that he speaks with college and university presidents almost daily. As long as institutions follow their approved reopening plans and work with local health departments, he said, they can move ahead with plans to resume ­classes.
  Northam criticized President Trump for reclassifying teachers as critical workers who must stay on the job even if they have been exposed to covid-19, the disease caused by the virus.
  “That’s the wrong thing to do,” he said. “If you are a teacher and there’s a high chance you’ve been exposed to covid-19, you should be tested and stay home until you get the results.”
  Northam said the virus is likely to be active through the fall and winter. He emphasized that residents should not let down their guard.
  The state’s infection rates are “at a more acceptable range, but we’re still not close to where we need to be to ease these restrictions,” he said.
  The greater Washington region reported 1,692 new coronavirus cases Tuesday, as well as 38 additional fatalities. D.C. reported 57 cases and no deaths; Maryland had 614 cases and six deaths; Virginia had 1,021 cases and 32 deaths.
  The daily death toll was the region’s highest number of fatalities in a single day since Aug. 6. The number of deaths in Virginia was the highest since Aug. 1.
  The rolling seven-day average of new infections in D.C., Maryland and Virginia was 1,595 on Tuesday, a number that has mostly held steady for more than a week.
 