WASHINGTON – Governors around the country are reacting to President Donald Trump and his administration's insistence that school's reopen next month amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, no matter what. 
  The Trump administration stated at the beginning of the week  they may withhold funding from schools   that won't reopen. The president  tweeted  Wednesday that he disagrees with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's "very tough & expensive guidelines for opening schools."
  The opening of schools has become a central issue for Trump in recent days, and he has continued to put pressure on governors to make it happen in the fall.
  COVID Updates: CDC defends back-to-school guide 
  More: What are the CDC school guidelines Trump wants changed amid COVID-19? These are the highlights. 
  Several states recently have  set daily records  for new coronavirus cases and deaths just a few weeks before schools could be reopening their doors to students.
  GOP Gov. Larry Hogan of Maryland  said  he didn't take the administrations threat about withholding funding as "a serious statement."
  "And I don't think the governors are taking it seriously," he said on CNN. "The talk about not following the CDC guidelines, it just came out of nowhere. It makes no sense."
  Hogan continued added that other governors have expressed the CDC guidance is helpful, and he believes that Trump is confused about it.
  CDC's Robert Redfield:  After pressure on school reopenings from Donald Trump, changes 'not a revision' of guidelines 
  Dr. Robert Redfield, the director of the CDC, pushed back on the idea that the agency was revising the guidelines on reopening schools at the behest of Trump and Vice President Mike Pence, but said the CDC instead was providing "additional reference documents."
  Redfield made the comments Thursday  in an interview with ABC's "Good Morning America"  and said the documents are for parents, caregivers, schools and teachers to "better monitor for symptoms" and use face masks.
  "I think it's really important," Redfield said. "It's not a revision of the guidelines. It's just to provide additional information to help schools be able to use the guidance that we put forth."
  More: Can Trump do that? FAQ on CDC guidelines, federal funding for schools during coronavirus 
  California Gov. Gavin Newsom, a Democrat, said Wednesday that the decision on reopening schools in his state all will be made by local health and education officials, and he emphasized he won’t be influenced by statements from Trump regarding school reopenings.
  “I’m not worried about the latest tweets” from Trump,  Newsom stated during a news conference . “What we need to address is safely reopening schools and we need to make that a foundational principle. That to me is not negotiable.”
  Just more than a week after releasing a school reopening plan that would allow students in her state return to their classrooms, Democratic Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan   tapped the brakes  on her state's reopening plans, expressing concern over recent increases in coronavirus cases, stating that if it continue, students may have to stay home.
  “We want to be in a position where we can get our kids back in schools in eight weeks,” Whitmer said Thursday.  “On the trajectory we’re on, it’s very much in question.”
  More: Pence says CDC changing school reopening guidelines after Trump called them 'tough and expensive' 
  Whitmer also appeared on CNN Wednesday, emphasizing that Michigan will make the decision to reopen schools based on science, and not politics.
  “I’m not sending kids and our education workforce into our schools unless it's safe. It’s that simple,” Whitmer said. “The reason Michigan has been able to push our curve down is because we’re listening to scientists. Not threats. Not politicians. We got to make decisions based on keeping people safe.”
  Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo of New York slammed Trump on Wednesday for pressuring states to reopen their schools, saying the federal government doesn’t have that authority. 
  “School reopenings are a state decision. Period. That is the law, and that is the way we’re going to proceed. It’s not up to the president of the United States,”  Cuomo said  during a news conference.
  Fauci says states need to address problems with COVID-19 response:  'If you don't admit it, you can't correct it' 
  Most education funding comes from the state and local levels, but the federal government provides billions through grants for low-income schools and special education programs.
  Some governors that are Trump allies have pushed forward with reopening schools. 
  GOP Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida is requiring K-12 schools to reopen in August, despite rising infection rates in the Sunshine State.
  More: Medical care for very ill COVID-19 patients is getting better 
  DeSantis said he "would not hesitate" to send his own kids to school when the academic year starts, and  said during a press conference , “I'm confident, if you can do Home Depot, if you can do Walmart, if you can do these things, we absolutely can do the schools.”
  Additionally, North Dakota Gov. Doug Burgum, a Republican,  said  he agrees with reopening schools. 
  “It’s an important part of our fabric of our communities,” said Burgum. “It’s an important part of our future.”
  The Trump administration has been pushing to reopen school's under the premise that children under the age of 18  "are at very low risk"  if they catch the virus that has, as of Thursday, killed more than 133,000 Americans,  according to Johns Hopkins University data .
  More: Donald Trump plans to travel to West Texas for campaign fundraiser despite COVID spike 
  However, White House health adviser  Dr. Deborah Birx  said Wednesday that the country has not been testing enough children to definitely conclude they won't drive up transmission of the virus.
  “Our data is skewed originally to people with symptoms, and then skewed to adults over 18, so we are looking very closely into that category by using our antibody test,”  Birx said Wednesday. 
  Contributing: Ryan W. Miller, Lorenzo Reyes 
 