The number of Americans under virtual lockdown grew Saturday to over 80 million, with New Jersey joining the list of states issuing a stay-at-home order or other sweeping mandates to fight the spread of the new  .
  “We must flatten the curve and ensure residents are practicing social distancing," New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy said, adding, “Even with this order in effect … life in New Jersey does not have to come to a complete standstill.”
  New Jersey's stay-at-home order applies to nearly all of its 9 million residents. It comes after Illinois issued a similar mandate Friday for its 13 million residents and following California's stay-at-home order for its population of 40 million.
  In New York, with a population of over 19 million, the governor has ordered that all nonessential businesses keep their workers home.   that all businesses that are not "life-sustaining" close.
  New York also announced Saturday that the number of coronavirus cases there now tops 10,000.
  Worldwide, there are now more than 275,000 confirmed cases of the coronavirus, according to  .
  
  
  
  Dennis Romero
  A Silicon Valley fire department said Saturday it was deploying a new unit that would be assigned to only coronavirus-related calls for help.
  The Menlo Park Fire District in Northern California called its two-person Pandemic Emergency Response Unit "perhaps the first of its kind in the Nation." 
  The department, which serves the cities of Menlo Park, Atherton, and East Palo Alto, said in a statement the unit would "minimize exposures to the rest of the workforce and community."
  , which includes Menlo Park, has recorded 110 coronavirus cases and one death. Menlo Park fire officials said they've seen as many as seven virus calls in one day.
  Members of the unit are trained in emergency medical services and will wear protective equipment that would be decontaminated after each call, it said.
  Alicia Victoria Lozano
  At least 19 inmates and 12 New York City Department of Corrections employees have tested positive for COVID-19, the department announced Saturday. 
  But an independent watchdog called The Board of Correction said 21 inmates at Rikers Island have tested positive for the virus,  .
  A federal inmate at the Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn also tested positive for coronavirus, marking the first confirmed case in the federal jail system, according to the U.S. Bureau of Prisons. The inmate complained of chest pains three days after arriving at the prison and was taken to an outside hospital where he was tested for COVID-19. After the test came back positive, the inmate was returned to prison and placed in isolation.
  The latest figures come a day after Mayor Bill de Blasio said the city is   in the United States.
  Dennis Romero
  It's not easy to attract celebrities to a party when much of the country is under orders to stay at home, but hip-hop DJ D-Nice appears to have attracted plenty of big names this week with his virtual performances from home.
  The spinner has been performing afternoon isolation sessions,   webcast on his Instagram page. On Saturday he thanked a long list of boldface names for "support," including "JLo, Drake, Naomi Campbell, Black Thought, Diddy" and dozens more. "Wow!," her said.
  The publication   said in a headline, "DJ D-Nice Is Breaking The Internet & Lifting Spirits Worldwide."
  As a member of Boogie Down Productions, the DJ, born Derrick Jones, was a creator during the golden age of hip-hop. He later DJ'd at President Barack Obama's second-term inauguration, and his website features of a photo of a performance with former Vice President Joe Biden sharing the stage.
  
  Dennis Romero
  Vice President Mike Pence and second lady Karen Pence have tested negative for coronavirus, the vice president's press secretary announced Saturday evening.
   Saturday afternoon after a member of Pence's staff   for the virus Friday night. He said that he did not have direct contact with the staffer, whom he described as "doing well."
  The vice president's press secretary, Katie Miller, said on Twitter, "Pleased to report that the COVID-19 test results came back negative for both Vice President @Mike_Pence and Second Lady @KarenPence."
  Last week, President Donald Trump's White House doctor said he had  .
  Pleased to report that the COVID-19 test results came back negative for both Vice President   and Second Lady  .
  Dennis Romero
  Bon Jovi keyboardist David Bryan said Saturday that he's tested positive for coronavirus.
  "I just got my results back today and tested positive for corona virus," the rock musician, 58, said on Instagram. "I’ve been sick for a week and feeling better each day."
  Bryan, who said in 2017 playing live is   told fans that he's been "quarantined for a week" and will stay away from others for at least another week.
  "I'll get tested again to make sure I'm free of this nasty virus," the New Jersey resident said.
  
  Dennis Romero
  Health officials in the state of Washington said Saturday the coronavirus death toll had reached 94.
  It was three weeks ago that   was announced by Washington health officials.
  Attention on the state's outbreak has focused  , where 33 residents, not all of them confirmed COVID-19 cases, have died since Feb. 19, a spokesman for the facility said Friday.
  The state has recorded 1,793 total cases, with a majority, 934, in King County, home of Seattle, according to state health figures. The health department said 27,121 people have been tested, with 7 percent positive. 
  Minyvonne Burke
  A prominent Episcopal priest who was the first confirmed case of coronavirus in Washington, D.C., has a message.
  Rev. Timothy Cole of Christ Church Georgetown, who was diagnosed in early March, spoke from his hospital bed to NBC News correspondent Julia Ainsley, who is also one of his parishioners, for MSNBC on Saturday.
  He said to hold hope now is reasonable.
  "I look back across my life at all the things that I have been through, and He’s still got me to the beginning of this day," Cole said. "So, it is not unreasonable for me to be hopeful that He will get me to the next day.”
  “We will get through as we got through many, many other things and be strong again," said the pastor.
  Alicia Victoria Lozano
  U.S. Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart, R-Fla., became one of two congressmen to test positive for COVID-19, which has sickened   and  .
  He  .
  In his first interview since testing positive for  , Diaz-Balart told his brother, NBC anchor Jose Diaz-Balart, that he his finally feeling better after nearly a week but confessed the initial symptoms hit him "like a ton of bricks."
  
  Suzanne Ciechalski and Dennis Romero
  The city that never sleeps seems to be abiding by officials' orders in regard to bar and restaurant service, at least judging by New York Police Department figures.
  The NYPD said Saturday that checks on 6,900 bars and restaurants Friday night resulted in no citations. "NO summonses or arrests, and NO enforcement action needed," it said on  .
  The department said 4,900 of the locations were closed. 
  On Friday, Gov. Andrew Cuomo unveiled his orders for all nonessential employees of businesses to stay home and for   to remain open only for delivery and takeout.
  New Yorkers: Always adapt. Always at our best in a crisis.   Last night the NYPD visited 6,900 bars & restaurants. NO summonses or arrests, and NO enforcement action needed. 4,900 locations were already closed.   Thank you, NYC  
  That same day, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, who said the city is  , called on "100 percent" of residents to stay home unless they are exempted.
  Lauren Egan and Monica Alba
  North Korea on Saturday said that President Donald Trump sent Kim Jong Un a letter in which Trump said he was impressed by the North Korean leader's ability to defend his people from the coronavirus outbreak. 
  North Korea has insisted that they have had no cases of COVID-19, but many experts say that Kim’s claim that the outbreak has not touched his country is almost certainly false.  
  The letter also says Trump "expressed his intent to render cooperation in the anti-epidemic work."
  “President Trump sent a letter to Chairman Kim of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, consistent with his efforts to engage global leaders during the ongoing pandemic. The President looks forward to continued communications with Chairman Kim," a senior administration official confirmed to NBC News. 
  Our teams at Apple have been working to help source supplies for healthcare providers fighting COVID-19. We’re donating millions of masks for health professionals in the US and Europe. To every one of the heroes on the front lines, we thank you.
 