New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo (D) can rightly lay claim to taking his state from the worst covid-19 infection rate in the United States to  one of the best . He did it, in part, by mandating the wearing of masks early and by his refusal to join the stampede of states reopening businesses. Instead, he gradually reopened his state region by region, with a multi-phase timetable combined with a robust testing and tracing program. Under this data-driven reopening plan, infections and hospitalization rates have  declined  in New York since reopening began.
  Cuomo called attention to the 38 states with a rising rate of infections at  his Monday news conference . He warned, “Now you’re going to see people getting on planes from the 38 states in this nation where the virus is going up going to land at JFK, Newark, etc. You know an outbreak anywhere is an outbreak everywhere.”
  Cuomo lambasted President Trump for his happy talk and false assurances that the pandemic is getting better: “Denying covid is really advancing the covid virus. . . . We’re not the United States of Denial. We have never been a nation that is excelled because we refused to admit the problem,” Cuomo said. “We admit the problem, and then we overcome the problem. If we do not, as a nation, acknowledge the covid viral increase, it is going to continue.” He added, “Those upward numbers don’t change on their own.”
  The governor pointed the finger directly at Trump and state leaders who opened up recklessly. “To bend the curve, yes, you have to test. Yes, you have to trace. Yes, you have to isolate. Yes, you have to phase the reopening, and you have to socially distance.” He noted that states such as Texas “reopened recklessly and are now closing again. Who did that help? It actually set us back.”
  He mocked Trump’s obsession with reducing the number of tests:
  He ended with a plea for Trump to not be a “co-conspirator” to the disease:
  Cuomo later criticized Trump for his “made up”  claim  that the virus is harmless to 99 percent of Americans. This, Cuomo argued, only encourages people to ignore guidelines about social distancing and mask-wearing.
  Worse, Trump’s response is capitulation. Several hundred deaths a day, amounting to tens of thousands more by Election Day? Whatever, he says .  Older people, nonwhites and lower-income populations dying at higher rates? Live with it, he tells us. But, of course, shrugging your shoulders will not control the rate of new cases and hospitalizations. This should be obvious, as the virus threatens to swamp health-care systems around the country.
  You cannot be “a little” indifferent or a “little irresponsible" during a pandemic. Trump has shown that he’s willing to write off thousands of American lives, staging mass gatherings without mandatory mask-wearing and creating a breeding ground for the virus. In doing so, he has made himself the least pro-life president in memory. Having no president would be better than having Trump in office; at least then, governors such as Cuomo could lead.
  Read   more :
  Michael Gerson: Trump is responsible for our unfolding coronavirus disaster 
  Donna F. Edwards: The game’s in the fourth quarter, and Trump can barely get a first down 
  The Post’s View: Trump plumbed new depths of depravity this Fourth of July 
  James Downie: No wonder the Trump administration doesn’t want Anthony Fauci on TV 
 