There's   trouble in paradise.
  Four weeks ago, Hawaii reported a total of 1,688 coronavirus cases since the start of the pandemic and was reporting an average of 45 new cases a day, according to an NBC News analysis.
  Since then, the total number of COVID-19 cases has reached 6,700, and public health officials are now reporting around 200 new cases a day. During this time, the death toll has also nearly doubled, jumping from 26 to 49, the figures show.
  Hawaii is the latest state where the number of cases is increasing; the Southern and Sun Belt states have been experiencing explosions of new cases and deaths in recent months after many reopened in May at the urging of President Donald Trump, just as the pandemic was picking up steam in those areas.
  The death toll in the United States climbed to more than 180,000 Wednesday, and the number of confirmed cases was fast approaching 6 million, according to the  . Both are world-leading numbers.
  While Hawaii's numbers are low compared to the rest of the U.S., they have set off alarm bells, and Gov. David Ige, a Democrat, has given the green light to a second "stay-at-home, work-from-home" order for the island of Oahu. It begins at 12:01 a.m. Thursday and will remain in effect for two weeks.
  "In March and April, we were successful in flattening the curve," Ige said Tuesday at a news conference, where he was joined by Honolulu Mayor Kirk Caldwell, who is also a Democrat, and U.S. Surgeon General Jerome Adams. "We need to get that back under control."
  : "This will be different from the last time. We're going to reset what we're doing."
  So for the next two weeks, Hawaii public health workers will ratchet up testing on Oahu, the state's most populous island, and in the state's biggest city, Honolulu, and they will hire 250 to 500 contact tracers.
  They have also booked an entire hotel Friday "with hundreds of rooms" where people who test positive or have been in contact with people who've tested positive will be quarantined away from their families and friends, Caldwell said.
  "We're going to see how it goes," he said. "We're hopeful that the number of cases will decline. ... If it doesn't, we'll look to continue it."
  The biggest outbreaks, Caldwell said, have been in the Pacific Islander and Filipino communities.
  Adams said that Hawaii has seen a leveling off in new cases but remains "at a turning point" and that things could get bad "really quickly."
  "There is good news. Most of you are doing the right thing," he said. "Unfortunately, all it takes is one large gathering, one party, one group of individuals going to a bar to undo a lot of the progress and a lot of the work that the rest of the people across Hawaii are putting in to stop this virus."
  Jessica Yamauchi, who heads the nonprofit Hawaii Public Health Institute, applauded the governor's move, noting that her state has an alarming 9.3 percent positivity rate. By comparison, New York state — once the country's hot spot — has had a positivity rate of less than 1 percent for 19 straight days, Gov. Andrew Cuomo reported Wednesday.
  "While we are still waiting to review the latest emergency orders, we believe that additional restrictions were needed to lower our positivity rate and reduce transmissions in the community," Yamauchi said. "We believe that the positivity rate should be used as a key metric to guide the state's decisions on when to tighten or loosen restrictions on businesses, public services and institutions.
  "The additional 5,000 tests per day over the next two weeks will also provide critical data needed to determine the best way to reduce community spread," she said.
  The U.S. accounts for a little over a fifth of the world's more than 821,000 deaths and about a quarter of the nearly 24 million confirmed cases .
  
  Corky Siemaszko is a senior writer for NBC News Digital.
 