When House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) stood firm in demanding that the fourth covid-19 relief bill include money for health-care workers and for states and localities, Republicans howled.  How dare she hold up money to small business! She’s on the wrong side of public opinion.  
  Well, as we have seen so many times before, Pelosi — in tandem with Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) — found a way to make a deal with the only semi-competent negotiator in the administration, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin. The Post  reports :
  The $25 billion for testing includes $11B for the states specifically. Moreover, “Schumer said they’d gotten a commitment from the White House that cities and states could use $150 billion allocated in the earlier $2 trillion Cares Act to offset some of the lost revenue in their budgets. That money was initially designed to address each state’s coronavirus response.”
  The bill accomplishes some major Democratic goals. The $60 billion goes to small businesses, often minority or women-owned, that were unable to qualify for loans in the first tranche of Small Business Administration loans. Pelosi and Schumer  in a written statement  touted inclusion of “$30 billion reserved for community-based lenders, small banks and credit unions and $30 billion for mid-sized banks and credit unions. . . . [and] expanding small business support beyond PPP by securing $50 billion for SBA emergency disaster lending, translating into more than $350 billion in loans, and $10 billion in SBA emergency disaster grants.”
  The testing funds were perhaps the biggest “get” for Democrats, a sad commentary on the Republican Party, which would rather defend Trump’s flight from responsibility than address the central issue needed to reopen the economy safely.  In a letter  to colleagues, Schumer underscored the importance of funding for testing:
  Perhaps not coincidentally, New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo (D) traveled to meet with the president on Tuesday afternoon. During a news conference in Buffalo before his departure, he explained that the focus of their White House discussion should be on testing. “Let’s coordinate who does what, what do the states do, what does the federal government do,”  he said . He implicitly criticized Trump’s effort to lay the entire testing problem off on the states. (“This is one of those thankless tasks. Everyone will say, ‘You did not do enough.' I get the instinct to distance yourself from it.”) However, while Cuomo asserted the states must regulate their labs and decide allocation of testing within their states, “I think the federal government needs to take the national manufacturer supply chain issue." In other words, the feds have to figure out how to beef up the supplies and the reagents that U.S. testing manufacturers have gotten from China and other countries.
  Congress is expected to swiftly vote on the bill and get it to Trump’s desk for signature. Then the hard part — overseeing the loan program, bird-dogging Trump on testing and overseeing a responsible approach to gradually reopening segments of our economy — can begin.
  The Opinions section is looking for stories of how the coronavirus has affected people of all walks of life. Write to us. 
  Read more :
  David Ignatius: How to avoid a pandemic Patriot Act 
  David Von Drehle: The saga of covid-19 is laying bare a conflict over who we want to be 
  Max Boot: Trump can’t defeat the coronavirus. But he can wage war on immigrants. 
  Matt Bai: Trump’s battles with reporters are part of his strategy. My advice: Ignore him. 
 