MEXICO CITY — On March 4, a few days after the first coronavirus case was discovered here, President Andrés Manuel López Obrador was asked about the infection at his daily news conference. “With the coronavirus, this idea that you can’t hug,” the president said.  “You have to hug. Nothing happens.”  He crossed his arms and hugged himself, a signature  gesture  that he uses to show him hugging the Mexican people.
  As the virus outbreak was declared a pandemic, and nations went into lockdown and shut down flights and borders, critics used the remark as an exhibit of how the silver-haired, 66-year-old president is mishandling the crisis. Videos of it on social media have been shared hundreds of thousands of times. But Mr. López Obrador was unrepentant, and in a seeming retort on March 14, he posted a video of himself  hugging and kissing  supporters at a large rally in the impoverished state of Guerrero.
  Mexico is behind Europe and the United States in its rate of coronavirus infection, but the number of cases is rising steadily. The government has not clamped down on travel or work, citing the enormous economic challenges as the peso tanks and the White House restricts crossings on the southern border. Mr. López Obrador continues to make frivolous comments on the virus. At a news conference, he took out amulets that he says protect him, and he continues to attend rallies.
  On the flip side, Mexico has been tracing imported cases and putting those people in quarantine, has been preparing hospitals and stepped up actions in recent days, closing schools and encouraging people to stay at home. On March 20, the government also began a social-distancing campaign, telling people not to greet with hugs and kisses, and supported it with ads featuring a new superhero,  Susana Distancia , her name a play on “sana distancia,” or “healthy distance.”
  Many parents have taken their children out of school early, some businesses have pressed to get their employees working from home, and some local governments have taken stricter measures. Mayor Claudia Sheinbaum of  Mexico City  has been among the most stringent, shutting cinemas, theaters, museums, gyms and bars.
  Hugging is the perfect symbol for Mr. López Obrador’s tropical populism. It portrays him as a warm man of the pueblo in contrast with the cold technocrats of what he calls  “the mafia of power.”  His slogan for trying to end the country’s drug war is “abrazos, no balazos,” or “hugs, not bullets.”
  Giving a hug is also one of the worst things you can do during a pandemic of this nature. It is the opposite of social distancing, a means of unknowingly spreading the infection. It is certainly not what a president should be encouraging here, or anywhere infections are rising.
  The broader idea of embracing, of social solidarity, is needed to get through this immense challenge. We have to stand together, metaphorically if not physically, to minimize the infections and economic collapse that could hurt us all. As  a newspaper editor from Italy writes , countries need to heed the lessons learned there of abandoning elements of the individualism we are used to and working side by side in the face of the horror.
  While the spread of the coronavirus may just be beginning in Mexico, the potential for devastation is huge. There are many great doctors here, but the health system is severely challenged. A lockdown would be especially difficult because for many people, if they don’t work, they cannot eat. Drugs cartels run riot in parts of the country, directly challenging the security forces. If the coronavirus were to spread to rampant levels, the social impacts would be devastating.
  But Mexico also has assets in the fight against the coronavirus. Family networks are strong, making it easier to close schools. During recent natural disasters, I have witnessed great social solidarity. After the  earthquake in Mexico City in 2017 , neighbors came together to clear rubble, and give food and supplies to the homeless. When the city of  Villahermosa was swept underwater in 2007 , people amassed to rescue others. If cases of coronavirus infection do shoot up, as is likely, this solidarity could translate to help the distribution of food and support for affected families.
  But a surge in infections would also require extraordinary actions from the government. Nations battling the crisis have taken measures such as not requiring rent and utility payments, and using soldiers to police curfews. Mexico needs to consider food distribution and how to offset the loss of income in the coming months, and face up to the reality of lockdowns.
  It is unfortunate that the coronavirus has struck during an era of populism. Across the Americas, Presidents López Obrador,  Donald Trump  and  Jair Bolsonaro  of Brazil have minimized the danger of the virus and blamed enemies for it. However, no government has looked great amid the crisis, and countries without populist presidents, such as France and Germany, have also seen infections shoot up. These are the leaders with whom we have to work in confronting this virus whether we like it or not.
  Mr. López Obrador claims his presidency is a historic time in Mexico, what he calls “The Fourth Transformation,” following independence from Spain, the Liberal Reform and the revolution. Indeed, he does seem to be governing in a historic moment, but it is one of immense challenge to public health and the society, perhaps the biggest in a century.
  The president clearly does have strengths of leadership that led him to the presidency. He now needs to use that leadership to embrace the crisis. He repeats that he loves his people and wants to hug them, but that hug needs to be one of doing everything to minimize the damage of the pandemic. He faces a test bigger than challenges confronted by recent Mexican presidents, and failure could have much more painful consequences for everyone here.
 