To the Editor: 
  Re “ Dollar Signs Versus Vital Signs ,” by Frank Bruni (column, March 25):
  I cannot imagine the mind-set that would allow President Trump to believe that we would react with joy and relief, and not horror and confusion, to his description of “packed churches” at Easter.
  Here we are separating ourselves from one another, facing the devastation of loneliness and possible infection, and listening to health experts warn us that this is only the beginning, and he invokes a preposterous vision, a “beautiful timeline,” that can come only from a disordered brain and, as Mr. Bruni suggests, a lack of any emotional depth.
  Carol Lefelt Tucson, Ariz.
  To the Editor: 
  I completely agree with all the criticism of President Trump’s handling of this crisis. But I just read that a  Gallup poll shows  that 60 percent of the respondents say the president is doing a good job on the virus, and his overall popularity has increased to a record 49 percent. Am I living in a parallel universe? I have suspected it for three years, and now I am convinced.
  Mary Hargrave Fair Oaks, Calif.
  To the Editor: 
  Re “ Balancing Local Control With a Pandemic’s Threat ” (news article, March 25):
  This morning I thought about how Dan Patrick, the lieutenant governor of Texas, said that grandparents should be willing to sacrifice their lives for the economy, and I wept. My only granddaughter is just past six months of age. I am 70 years old, have waited for her for a very long time and am hoping to accompany her through her life for as long as I possibly can.
  More than just that, I wept for America. I immigrated over 30 years ago to a country that seemed full of opportunity and the people were compassionate and intelligent. It is abhorrent when a state leader could say something so ignorant, disrespectful and cruel and not be forced to resign.
  Thankfully there are other leaders of states and cities who are responsibly caring for valuable citizens no matter who or how old they are.
  Tamar Jacobson Philadelphia
  To the Editor: 
  Dear President Trump and Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick: As a very old woman living in Texas, I’m sorry, but I’m just not ready to die so you can take credit for saving the stock market.
  Sharon Austry Fort Worth
  To the Editor: 
  Re “ You Die of the Coronavirus All Alone ,” by Daniela J. Lamas (Op-Ed, March 25):
  This might be the time for our country to consider emulating the Netherlands, where individuals can decide it’s time to die. They might still be alone, but they can opt to decline inevitable suffering. Horrible as this may sound to American ears, this would also free up equipment for use in patients who stand a better chance of survival. And I say this as an old person.
  Faith Frankel Boonton, N.J.
  To the Editor: 
  I always enjoy Gail Collins and Bret Stephens’s feature “The Conversation,” including the most recent, “ Trump Doesn’t Have the Attention Span to Fight Coronavirus ” (nytimes.com, March 24). Bret’s coronavirus playlist, however, overlooked an old standard: Duke Ellington’s “Don’t Get Around Much Anymore.”
  Oliver Bond Austin, Tex.
  To the Editor: 
  Here in Virginia, most of us cannot get tested unless we’re hospitalized. This results in severe undercounting of the infected — not to mention folks walking around contagious.
  Both my son and I are sick and have been for weeks. We both have dry coughs and fevers, and tested negative for influenza and strep. In any normal situation, this would result in a test for the next reasonable possibility, coronavirus. Because of the dearth of tests, we have not been tested. We are not “sick enough.”
  My son has pneumonia, fevers up to 102, coughing so bad that he cannot breathe, heaviness in his lungs as well as other risk factors (smoking, autoimmune disease), but it’s controllable with cold medicine and an inhaler. I am short of breath if I exert myself at all. I also have risk factors. Yet  still  we are not tested.
  Unless we are so sick that we must be admitted to the intensive care unit, there will be no testing. Who is dictating this? For every person who has been tested, there could be a hundred more, if not a thousand, who may have the virus and cannot get tested.
  Until we test those with “mild” symptoms, we don’t know if 50,000 people have coronavirus, five million or 50 million. They could be off by orders of magnitude. The numbers are compressed by the C.D.C. and state policies on whom to test, and by too few available tests!
  Mary E. Tyler Williamsburg, Va.
  To the Editor: 
  Re “ Solar Panels Crop Up on the Farm, and the Neighbors Balk ” (news article, March 18):
  Characterizing rural residents’ rage at Big Solar’s planned gargantuan solar plants as Nimby-esque is overly simplistic. Increasing solar energy is a worthy goal, but it should not be achieved at the expense of blighting our towns’ precious pastoral qualities.
  These days more than ever, rural towns’ bucolic beauty is demonstrably beneficial to physical, spiritual and fiscal health (by enhancing the property tax base). Corporate solar behemoths are seeking to maximize their profits by installing huge plants on relatively cheap land close to existing transmission lines; they could instead absorb the additional cost of modifying or installing their plants at less disruptive, unsightly locations.
  Fragile wildlife is protected from extinction by state and federal laws. So, too, should rural life be.
  Richard T. Wolf Copake, N.Y. The writer is a council member on the Copake Town Board. 
 