All too often, the elected officials responsible for safeguarding the public interest seem removed from the realities facing that public. The higher the office, the greater the remove.
  For Senator  Ted Cruz , Republican of Texas, that distance shrank dramatically this weekend, when he was notified that he had been in contact with someone later found to have the coronavirus.
  The interaction — a handshake and brief exchange — occurred late last month at the Conservative Political Action Conference, an annual gathering of activists held in the suburbs of Washington. CPAC is precisely the sort of large, crowded, backslapping, cheek-kissing quasi-reunion that can turn into a germ transmission factory. Mr. Cruz was not the only lawmaker exposed. On Monday, the attending physician for the Capitol  announced  that the infected attendee had crossed paths with several other members of Congress, including Representatives Paul Gosar of Arizona, Doug Collins of Georgia and Matt Gaetz of Florida.
  Upon learning of his potential contamination, Mr. Cruz, who has a hard-won reputation as a partisan provocateur, did something that may have surprised his critics: He behaved like a responsible public servant.
  On Sunday, the senator announced he was placing himself under temporary quarantine in his Texas home. ( Mr. Gosar  did  the same , followed by  Mr. Collins  and  Mr. Gaetz  on Monday. Mr. Gaetz, who was traveling with President Trump, learned after Air Force One lifted off from Orlando that he had been in touch with an infected person at CPAC. He then took a seat in an otherwise empty section of the plane.)
  Mr. Cruz’s statement  was detailed, measured and reassuring about his situation. “I’m not experiencing any symptoms,” he said, noting that “the medical authorities have advised me that the odds of transmission from the other individual to me were extremely low” and that those he’d interacted with since CPAC “should not be concerned.”
  Mr. Cruz also stressed the need for vigilance. “Everyone should continue to treat this outbreak seriously and be driven by facts and medical science,” he said. He urged the public “to follow the recommendations of the C.D.C. and other health professionals.”
  To the senator’s credit, he was focused on the coronavirus before it became personal. In January, he  called on  the administration “to issue a travel ban to and from China and implement advanced screenings at U.S. airports” — which may have struck many at the time as an overreaction. He has been  outspoken  about Americans’ need for “clarity” and “confidence in the government’s response.” Last week, he held a subcommittee hearing titled “From SARS to Coronavirus: Examining the Role of Global Aviation in Containing the Spread of Infectious Disease.”
  This approach may strike many as unremarkable — the least a public official should do under the circumstances. But it stands in contrast to the dishonest, chaotic muddle that we’ve seen from the White House so far, as various officials send contradictory messages about a host of issues, including the scope of the problem, the availability of testing and the timeline for a vaccine. In  his remarks  at CPAC — as the virus circulated — Mick Mulvaney, then  the acting White House chief of staff , blamed the news media for stoking panic because “they think this is going to be the thing that brings down the president.”
  Last Wednesday, before his CPAC encounter, Mr. Gaetz made light of the crisis,  wearing a gas mask  on the House floor during a vote on emergency funding. Two days later, it was announced that one of his constituents had died of the virus.
  The chaos flows from the top. This crisis has showcased Mr. Trump at his worst: confused, confusing, defensive and dishonest. His  Friday  news conference at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention was a train wreck, as, among other nonsense, he  asserted , “Anybody that wants a test can get a test.” He compared the “perfect test” to his perfect phone call with the Ukrainian president that got him impeached.
  On Monday, the president issued  multiple   tweets  that  smacked  of  denial  and  panic , downplaying the crisis, lashing out at Democrats and the “Fake News” and claiming that the nose-dive in the domestic stock market — so steep it triggered a brief suspension of trading — had nothing to do with the virus.
  The president is in over his head and desperate to pretend he is in control.
  This is not new behavior for Mr. Trump, but it carries more acute risk than usual. On multiple occasions last week, he  insisted  that he would continue to hold rallies — even as conferences and  festivals  are being canceled across the country. “I tell you what, I haven’t had any problem filling them,” he said during his  C.D.C. tour . Asked about the wisdom of having so many people packed together, he said, “It doesn’t bother them, and it doesn’t bother me.”
  As for whether he is taking precautions and avoiding germs: “No, not at all,” he  said .
  Such public bravado may suit the president, who has strictly controlled contact with the public and a team of medical professionals working to minimize his risks. But what about all those supporters crammed together for hours — who, not to be indelicate, skew toward the mature cohort heavily at risk from the virus? These fans may consider the personal risk a small price to pay for seeing their hero in person. But should the president be encouraging such risk? And what of the broader public health implications?
  Maybe Mr. Trump should call Mr. Cruz for tips on how to be a better role model.
 