President Trump revealed on Monday that despite  warnings  from the Food and Drug Administration, he said he has been taking  hydroxychloroquine  for about a week and a half as a preventive measure.
  The F.D.A. warnings about hydroxychloroquine (and the related drug chloroquine) follow studies of the drug that have so far largely proved disappointing. While not definitive,  large   studies  have showed no benefit for Covid-19 — though some indicated  an elevated risk of serious adverse effects  like cardiac arrest.
  The president is not alone in taking this risky drug. In an  analysis  in this paper, for example, prescriptions surged to almost 32,000 on the night of March 19, when President Trump supported the drug during a news conference, representing more than 46 times the rate of the average weekday for the drug.
  The evolving story of hydroxychloroquine represents one failure after another, involving political leaders, media talking heads (like Laura Ingraham and Sean Hannity), physicians, researchers and regulators. The bottom line is that even as we are in the midst of a pandemic with a climbing death toll, hydroxychloroquine has potentially added to the body count because of its  serious possible side effects  — like  liver and kidney damage ,  heart failure and cardiac arrest  — and by creating a  shortage  of the drug for patients with  lupus , whose  disease flares  when they don’t take hydroxychloroquine.
  Reforms we enact now can optimize our response to the next phase of this evolving pandemic as well as to future emergencies.
  To fix this process, we should take four steps. First, we need to ensure that the F.D.A. retains patient safety as its top priority. On March 28, in an unprecedented move based on little clinical rationale, the F.D.A.  issued  an Emergency Use Authorization for the use of the drugs for patients with Covid-19, even as the same institution subsequently  warned  about its risks. While the F.D.A. has a long history of protecting the American public from harm, this decision was highly unusual and has been  criticized roundly . Rick Bright, the removed chief of the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Agency,  said  in a whistle-blower statement that he was ousted in part for resisting “potentially dangerous drugs promoted by those with political connections.” There is a critical need to make the Emergency Use Authorization process more transparent and to maintain the independence of regulators.
  Second, pharmacists can offer an additional layer of protection from potentially dangerous prescriptions. In an analysis using national anonymous pharmacy data that my team of physician-researchers performed with  GoodRx , we found that while prescriptions for hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine rose by 99 percent over the usual rate in independent pharmacies in the week of March 15, chain pharmacies saw a giant spike of 285 percent, confirming reports of chain pharmacies being  engulfed in chaos  during the pandemic.
  Independent pharmacies may have seen an attenuated surge in hydroxychloroquine prescription compared with chains because pharmacists there usually have  more time , which allows them to provide  more  counseling to individuals picking up prescriptions. Reducing pharmacists’ workload and providing them more time, and more of a say in the prescriptions they dispense, can be helpful in reducing the filling of inappropriate or unsafe prescriptions.
  Third, no amount of reforms will be successful if they don’t address those signing the prescriptions. Physicians are on the front lines of this ravaging pandemic and have seen the destruction this disease can cause. Many are rightfully fearful, not just for their patients but also for their own well-being. In fact, some physicians  stockpiled  hydroxychloroquine for themselves or their loved ones.
  Yet it has never been more important to be guided by evidence rather than emotion. Physicians should be required to document the diagnosis they are writing a prescription for before it can be filled, as many states now  require .
  Many physicians felt they had to react quickly in a data-free zone to the information available as they faced off a harrowing disease. Yet their widespread prescribing of hydroxychloroquine may have had a paradoxical effect: By potentially diverting patients from continuing clinical trials, instead of providing more insights it has greatly diminished what we know about the effects of the drug on Covid-19. A pandemic is in fact the best time to enroll patients in trials since the pool of potential subjects is enormous and treatment standards have not been established.
  For rapid generation of knowledge, bureaucratic hurdles to enrollment in clinical trials need to be significantly eased so that novel interventions can be swiftly assessed. If even a small fraction of the patients prescribed hydroxychloroquine had enrolled in trials instead, we would already have definitive evidence of any potential benefit of this drug.
  As others including the  American Medical Association  have warned, given the potentially dangerous side effects and no proof of defense against Covid-19, taking the drug to prevent the disease — as President Trump is reportedly doing — may not be a wise decision. In my view, given what we know today, Americans should stay away from this drug until definitive trials are published.
  The hydroxychloroquine fiasco is not the first time a public health crisis has been created by rampant distribution of prescription drugs. Let’s not forget that we are still in the midst of an opioid epidemic that was largely ignited by similar factors:  loosely regulated  drugs with  limited evidence  that were  overprescribed  by doctors with  little pharmacist oversight .
  Pandemonium often follows a pandemic. While we were clearly unprepared for this first wave, let’s not repeat these missteps in the future. Physicians, pharmacists and regulators are working to protect patients from the pathogen, but they also need to protect them from themselves.
 