The most glamorous night in movies was Sunday: the 92nd Academy Awards. The first award of the night,  supporting actor, went to Brad Pitt . His role in Quentin Tarantino's "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood," landed him his first, yes first, acting Oscar. Laura Dern also won her first Oscar, as supporting actress for "Marriage Story." South Korean film  "Parasite" won four awards  including best picture, beating out "Joker" and "1917."
  An ex-con was taken into custody Sunday in New York City after two police officers were wounded less than 12 hours apart in shootings  described as "assassination attempts" by the mayor and police commissioner . Mayor Bill de Blasio, speaking at a news conference Sunday, said a police lieutenant was in stable condition after being wounded Sunday morning. The officer shot Saturday night was expected to be released from a hospital sometime Sunday, the mayor added. De Blasio called any attack targeting a police officer "an attack on all of us. It's intolerable and we will not accept it." 
  Sen. Bernie Sanders continues to lead in polling ahead of New Hampshire's primary Tuesday  while former South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg has surged into second place . The polls show Buttigieg has growing support from New Hampshire voters while former Vice President Joe Biden has tumbled in recent Granite State polls. The results from Iowa's caucuses last week are still not official after delays and inconsistencies with the vote count, but Buttigieg's strong finish there appears to have given his campaign a bounce heading into New Hampshire. Buttigieg and Sanders have both declared victory in that unsettled contest, which is undergoing a precinct review state Democrats said will be completed Monday. 
  The death toll from the coronavirus in mainland China has climbed to 814, according to officials,  with a 60-year-old U.S. citizen becoming what appears to be the first American fatality  from the global virus outbreak. The American victim, who was not identified, died on Wednesday after being diagnosed with the coronavirus in Wuhan, according to the U.S. Embassy. In the U.S., another group of 201 American evacuees from Wuhan arrived at Travis Air Force Base in Fairfield, California, to drop off 53 people for a two-week quarantine. State Department spokeswoman Morgan Ortagus said the U.S. had brought more than 800 Americans from Wuhan in recent days.
  House Speaker Nancy Pelosi slammed President Donald Trump for the abrupt removal of Lt. Col. Alexander Vindman on Friday,  who served on the National Security Council and provided damning testimony during the impeachment inquiry . "President Trump is impeached forever," Pelosi said. "The shameful firing of Colonel Vindman was a clear and brazen act of retaliation that showcases the President’s fear of the truth." Also Friday, Trump fired Ambassador to the European Union Gordon Sondland from Brussels. Both Vindman and Sondland provided key testimony into Trump's alleged pressuring of Ukraine's government to open investigations into domestic political rivals and leveraging of military aid money to do so.
  The XFL's inaugural season kicked off Saturday,  marking the start of yet another professional football league in the United States . To casual football fans, this league — like the now-defunct Alliance of American Football before it — might at first appear to be a novelty, with new teams, new logos and unfamiliar rules. But to the hundreds of players  who make up the XFL, it represents one more — and perhaps one last — chance at pro football. The DC Defenders beat the Seattle Dragons, 31-19, in the first game of the 2020 XFL season. Here are  five things we learned  from this weekend's XFL's openers.
  P.S. Like this round up of stories?  We send it to inboxes every afternoon.  Sign up for "The Short List" newsletter here . 
  This is a compilation of stories from across the USA TODAY Network. Contributing: Associated Press. 
 