WASHINGTON – America’s most famous immunologist is  getting his own bobblehead .
  Dr. Anthony Fauci, whose likeness has been appearing on  donuts , T-shirts and socks as a sign of gratitude for his work fighting the coronavirus pandemic, is being immortalized as a small figurine with a gyrating head. It's a pop-culture milestone usually reserved for presidents, rock stars and star athletes – not 79-year-old wonky scientists like Fauci.
  And for a good cause: the  National Bobblehead Hall of Fame and Museum  will be donating $5 from every Dr. Fauci Bobblehead sold to the American Hospital Association in support of the  100 million mask challenge .
  The program is an initiative led by the American Hospital Association to outfit health care providers with the personal protective equipment necessary to deal with the  surging crisis .
  “Bobbleheads are the ultimate honor, and we think Dr. Fauci deserves it given what he has done and continues to do for our country and the world in the battle against COVID-19,” said Phil Sklar, co-Founder and CEO of the bobblehead museum.
  Front lines: Fauci predicts up to 200,000 U.S. deaths as Trump weighs adjusting coronavirus guidelines. Here is what you should know. 
  The collectible trinket has become a fixture as giveaway promotions at sporting events. Sklar said the Milwaukee-based museum would be sending out the Fauci bobbleheads, which stand seven inches tall, in July but pre-orders are being accepted now.
  Fauci, director of the  National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases  since 1984, has been the reassuring face of the country’s response to the pandemic that’s killed thousands and upended daily life. #Wheresfauci blankets social media whenever press briefings of the  White House Coronavirus Task Force  that he sits on are televised and he’s not on the podium.
  Until COVID-19 appeared, Fauci probably was best know for his work combatting the AIDS crisis. His work in the 1980s drew the admiration of George H. W. Bush  who listed him as a hero  during the 1988 presidential debate.
 