The unofficial Labor Day start to the fall presidential campaign centered around Wisconsin on Monday, as Vice President Mike Pence tried to poach Democrats in La Crosse and Senator Kamala Harris sought to rally the Democratic base in Milwaukee.
  The vice president, joined by Labor Secretary Eugene Scalia, was hoping to appeal to the white working-class voters along the state’s western border who supported Democrats for a generation before helping tip the state to Mr. Trump by less than a percentage point in 2016.
  Standing before a group of employees at a regional utility company, Mr. Pence trumpeted the administration’s work on behalf of dairy farmers, claimed credit for the state’s booming economy before the coronavirus crisis and repeatedly attacked Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris by name.
  While he acknowledged that the use of force by law enforcement should be “thoroughly investigated,” Mr. Pence did not refer to the police shooting of Jacob Blake in Kenosha, Wis., instead focusing on the violent aftermath of the shooting, much as Mr. Trump did in his visit there.
  In his own trip there last week, Mr. Biden met with the Blake family,  as Ms. Harris did  Monday upon arriving in Milwaukee.
  She also met with union workers as well as Black business owners and pastors in the city, where Democratic turnout dipped four years ago and aided Mr. Trump’s victory.
  “We have to get this done, I need your help in Milwaukee,” Ms. Harris told supporters lined up to greet her on the sidewalk, encouraging them to vote early.
  For his part, Mr. Biden spent the day in Pennsylvania. At  a stop  in Lancaster, Pa., Mr. Biden promised that he would be “the best friend labor has ever had in the White House” and criticized Mr. Trump for treating the stock market as representative of the whole economy.
  Mr. Biden also said that Mr. Trump was politicizing the process of developing a coronavirus vaccine in an attempt to rush one out by Election Day. He said he would get a vaccination tomorrow if scientists said it was safe and effective, but added, “One of the problems with playing with politics is he’s said so many things that aren’t true, I’m worried if we do have a really good vaccine, people are going to be reluctant to take it. He’s undermining public confidence.”
  President Trump, meanwhile, stayed in Washington and called a news conference at the White House, where he defended himself for a fifth straight day  following a report in The Atlantic  that he had ridiculed America’s war dead.
 