
  
  A Turkish military plane carrying thousands of donated medical supplies landed at Joint Base Andrews in Maryland on Tuesday evening.
  The plane was met by Turkish Ambassador to the US Serdar Kılıç and Acting Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs Philip Reeker.
  In remarks on the tarmac, Kılıç said he would deliver a letter from President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to President Trump.
  He said the shipment was dispatched upon Erdogan’s instruction and “testifies to the Turkish people’s will to support our longstanding ally, United States, in its ongoing difficult fight against Covid-19.”
  Reeker said the shipment was “an important demonstration of NATO unity and the strength of US-Turkey ties and our strong historic relationship.”
  “On behalf of the Secretary, the President and the people of the United States of America, thank you for this generous gift to the United States,” he said.
  According to the Turkish Presidency and the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the cargo contains 500,000 surgical masks, protective coveralls, 1,500 goggles, 400 N95 masks and 500 face shields.
  The Turkish Presidency said that there were 2,000 liters of disinfectant also on board.
  Tennessee Gov. Bill Lee said gyms in 89 of Tennessee's 95 counties will be allowed to reopen on Friday, May 1. 
  Gyms must reduce capacity to 50%, utilize social distancing, and remove shared equipment, he said. 
  Tennessee Department of Health Commissioner Lisa Piercey also spoke at the news conference announcing the state has met the White House's new testing guidance.
  "President Trump asked last night for states to do 2% of their population of testing each month. We have already done that in the month of April, and we are making plans to do that going forward," Piercey said.
  "About 135,000 tests have been done this month. That's about 2% of our state's population," she added. 
  
  
  South Dakota Gov. Kristi Noem said she worked with President Trump and the Department of Interior to ensure that a July 3 fireworks display at Mt. Rushmore National Memorial would happen.
  "I want to thank the President and the Department of Interior for working with us to make it happen," she added.
  When asked about implications of a large gathering during the nationwide Covid-19 pandemic, Noem was unconcerned.
  "We’ll continue to evaluate what the crowd looks like and how we'll be able to facilitate that event but regardless of how many people will be there, the fireworks will go off and I can't think of a better way for us to celebrate America’s birthday," Noem said.
  The White House coronavirus task force did not meet for a third day in a row, a source familiar with the schedule tells CNN. 
  This is rare given that until this weekend, the task force had met nearly every day since it was assembled, though there was a brief break on Easter weekend. 
  This change could be an indication of what's to come. 
  CNN reported Monday that White House intends to scale back the large meetings. Smaller groups of members on the task force are still meeting, the source added. 
  The task force has its first meeting this week scheduled tomorrow. 
  
  Major League Baseball will allow teams to offer refunds on tickets for missed games beginning Wednesday, a source familiar with the league's decision tells CNN. 
  This is not a league mandate, and each team will be free to make its own decision regarding ticket refunds. 
  MLB still considers all games missed so far this season as being postponed, not canceled.
  Dr. Anthony Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, warned Americans could be in for "a bad fall and a bad winter" if the United States isn’t prepared for the return of the coronavirus.
  
  
  
  Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell acknowledged tonight a lack of coronavirus testing needed in order to safely reopen businesses across the country.
  He continued:  “We don’t yet have treatment, and we don’t yet have a vaccine. We've allocated $25 billion at that whole area of testing and treatment and vaccine in the bill that we just passed last week. That's all part of reassuring everyone that they can safely go back to work.”
   
  
  
  There are at least 1,008,066 coronavirus cases in the US, and at least 58,126 people have died, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University.
  The totals include cases from all 50 states, the District of Columbia and other US territories, as well as repatriated cases.
  
  
  Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear said businesses must continue to try to telework where possible as part of a list of rules they must follow if they plan to reopen in the weeks to come.
  He said there must be a phased return to work for businesses and they must be able to provide onsite temperature or health checks. Masks and any other necessary personal protective equipment will also be mandatory.
  Beshear said businesses must close common areas such waiting rooms, cafeterias and break rooms, and will need to enforce social distancing, limit face-to-face meetings, and provide sanitizer or hand washing stations.
  Businesses will be required to make special accommodations for those especially at risk and there will need to be testing plans in place if an employee starts showing symptoms, he added.
 