As the number of confirmed coronavirus cases around the world , President Donald Trump said he'd halt   after the organization criticized his early response to the pandemic. 
  In the U.S., the recorded death toll topped 23,500, according to NBC News' tally.
   on Tuesday that it'd suffered the worst day yet of the pandemic, losing 40 more lives to the disease, bringing the death toll to 360 in that metropolis.
  The toll of COVID-19 has hit no city harder than New York, and official counts in the five boroughs might even be understated. While the city's health department listed the confirmed death toll at 6,589 by 1 p.m., the "probable" number of fatalities is at least 3,778 more — which would bring the staggering total to more than 10,000, according to data obtained by NBC News.
  Here's   about the coronavirus, plus a .
  
  
  Julie Tsirkin
  Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell on Tuesday announced that the Senate will not reconvene until May 4, weeks later than the previously announced return date of April 20. The Senate and House will now both return on the same day.
  "As the country continues working together to flatten the curve, following the advice of health experts, the full Senate is not expected to travel back to Washington D.C. sooner than Monday, May 4th," he said in a statement. "All members will receive at least 24 hours' notice if this changes. This bipartisan decision reflects consultation with Leader Schumer and my colleagues in Senate leadership."
  He said that a top priority will be passing additional funding for the Paycheck Protection Program.
  "Clean funding for worker pay in a crisis should not be controversial," he said.
  Minyvonne Burke
  The number of coronavirus deaths in New York state climbed to 10,834, Gov. Andrew Cuomo said at a press conference on Tuesday. 
  More than 770 people have died from the virus in the past 24 hours. 
  While the governor said the state's numbers are lower than what was projected by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, he is worried about the increase in the percentage of nursing home deaths.
  "Nursing homes have been an increasing issue," Cuomo said. 
  Out of all the New Yorkers hospitalized because of COVID-19, 64 percent are in the city, 22 percent are in Long Island and 8 percent are in Westchester and Rockland Counties. The remaining 6 percent are hospitalized in other parts of the state. 
  The governor urged residents to continue doing their part as the state battles the virus. 
  "What we have learned through this process is that our actions determine our destiny," he said. "We changed the curve. ... Every protection hand a higher rate of infection, had a higher rate of death. ... That didn't happen."
   
   
  Erik Ortiz
  The Mississippi State Penitentiary at Parchman — which is under   over alleged civil rights abuses — has reported its first death of an inmate who had the coronavirus.
  The results of his test did not come in until after his death, state corrections officials said Monday. Other details were not immediately available, but the officials added that he had been exhibiting symptoms and was medically isolated before he died. The exact cause of death was unavailable.
  Tommy Taylor, the interim commissioner of the Mississippi Department of Corrections, said in a statement that the state's prisons have been under quarantine since the coronavirus outbreak began. "With this first positive case, we have further isolated all the affected areas and increased screenings for all the inmates who came in contact with the individual," Taylor added.
  It's unclear if other prisoners are now being tested. Prisoner rights advocates have   from the state and say the poor conditions at Parchman make it susceptible to the virus' spread.
  Elizabeth Chuck
  Florida Surgeon General Dr. Scott Rivkees was removed from a coronavirus briefing moments after he urged social distancing to remain in place until a coronavirus vaccine is developed — which could be at least a year away.
  “Until we get a vaccine, which is a while off, this is going to be our new normal and we need to adapt and protect ourselves,” Rivkees said Monday at a news conference held by Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis.
  Rivkees' comments contrast with   both DeSantis and President Donald Trump, who have expressed fear that the economic toll of sheltering in place for a lengthy period of time could devastate more lives than the coronavirus itself.
  Shortly after his remarks, Rivkees was ushered out of the room by the governor’s spokeswoman, Helen Aguirre Ferré. 
  In a statement to NBC News, Ferré asserted that Rivkees "was not pulled out of the press conference, which ran longer than expected."
  "He had a pre-scheduled meeting with Governor DeSantis’ Deputy Chief of Staff Adrian Lukis he needed to attend," she said, adding that after the meeting, he went to the State Emergency Operations Center with Florida's Division of Emergency Management Director Jared Moskowitz.
  Public health officials have urged restraint in lifting social distancing measures, warning that pulling them back too quickly could result in a disastrous spike in new coronavirus infections.
  This is Florida's Surgeon General being removed from a   briefing by   staff right after saying we'll need to social distance until there is a vaccine.    
  Janelle Griffith
  Asked Tuesday about plans to reopen New York City, Mayor Bill de Blasio said, "In this case, I'm going to declare myself a conservative."
  "This is all about safety and all about health," de Blasio said. "My profound concern is that if we do this the wrong way, if we do it prematurely, we will see a resurgence of this disease."
  De Blasio said "we would be fools" to ignore the warnings, including from places that acted a little prematurely and are paying for it.
  Janelle Griffith
  New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said Tuesday that in May, the city will begin producing 50,000 of its own tests kits each week. 
  That will be in addition to the 50,000 test kits supplied to the city on a weekly basis by Aria Diagnostics in Indiana, he said. 
  "For the first time, we're going to have a truly, reliable, major supply of testing," de Blasio said. 
  He called on the federal government to provide more tests kits and personal protective equipment.
  "This does not let the federal government off the hook," he said.
  Janelle Griffith
  New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said Tuesday that several local manufacturers will be able to produce hundreds of thousands of face shields per week.
  "We will no longer be at the whims of the federal government," de Blasio said at a morning news conference.
  De Blasio said that the manufacturers will be able to make at least 240,000 face shields per week.
  He also said the city had taken measures to increase the supply of medical gowns.
  Scott Stump
  Oprah Winfrey is sounding the alarm about the seriousness of   and its  
  The television mogul explores the impact of the illness on the black community in the latest installment of her "Oprah Talks COVID-19" series, which is available for free on Apple TV+ starting Tuesday. She spoke with Hoda Kotb about the latest installment on TODAY Tuesday.
  
 