Liz Brown-Kaiser
  A Seton Hall Sports poll released Monday showed that a majority of Americans believe medical experts — rather than  President Trump  — should decide when the National Football League season begins amid the  coronavirus  pandemic.
  This comes after the president spoke to league commissioners last Saturday,  encouraging them  to start the NFL season on time — a move that most of the public disapproved of according to this same survey.
  The poll shows that six-in-10 Americans believed Trump’s conference call with sports commissioners, in which he expressed his desire to have fans at games by August, was inappropriate given current medical guidance on the  coronavirus. 
  Just 36 percent said the president’s comments were appropriate.
  When asked who should determine when the NFL resumes play, a clear majority of respondents  — 61 percent — said medical experts should decide. Only 7 percent said the president should decide, and another 11 percent said it should be up to state governors.
  About 20 percent of the nation believes the NFL should decide whether to hold games in September on its own. 
  In a separate question, 55 percent of those polled said the federal government’s response to the  coronavirus outbreak  was not strong enough, while 38 percent labeled the government’s handling appropriate. A mere 6 percent called the government’s response excessive. The numbers were about the same for those self-identified as sports fans. 
  As to when the NFL season should start, nearly half of respondents — 46 percent — said it should not go on as planned for September 13, versus 36 percent who said it should. By a vast 57-point margin, 77 percent of the public argued that the college and professional football seasons should be delayed if players don’t have sufficient training ahead of time compared to 20 percent who said a delay wouldn’t be necessary. 
  The poll also found that 62 percent of those surveyed credited sports leagues for cancelling their seasons early-on because of the novel coronavirus, saying they played a role in making government officials take the outbreak more seriously. 
  The Seton Hall Sports Poll was conducted by the Sharkey Institute within the university's Stillman School of Business April 6-8 via landline and cell phones. It surveyed 762 adults in the United States, and it’s margin of error is plus-minus 3.6 percentage points. 
 