with Brent D. Griffiths
  Good morning, friends. Hope everyone's taking care of themselves as best they can – sleeping, eating, hydrating, exercising and making  “a plan for how to deal with this moment. ” Feel free to reach out for tips, comments, or company. Thanks, as always, for waking up with us ♥️  
  WE'RE ALL IN THE #YANGGANG NOW:  When Andrew Yang dropped out of the presidential race a month ago, he couldn't have possibly anticipated the centerpiece of his platform — universal basic income — would be the bipartisan solution that Republicans and Democrats in Washington are rallying behind amid the  coronavirus  crisis. 
  “Certainly I would never hope that UBI gets adopted because of this terrible virus. But I will say it's somewhat surreal to suspend my presidential campaign in February and see it potentially implemented in March, ”   Yang told us in an interview on Tuesday. 
  He confirmed to Power Up that his team has been in touch with the White House to provide support for the implementation of the disbursements.  
  “We are doing anything we can to help in terms of data and resources since we obviously have access to the studies that show that cash infusions like this make people stronger healthier, and mentally healthier, and more trusting of both their community and their government,” Yang told us. “So there are a lot of very positive impacts and we’re eager to help in a time a crisis.”
  After Sen. Mitt Romney (R-Utah)  suggested  sending every American a $1,000 check, bipartisan support for the idea swiftly emerged. During a news briefing Tuesday, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin confirmed White House support for the direct cash assistance to Americans, although he did not specify a dollar amount. Democrats and Republicans also endorsed the cash infusion — part of a  broader, massive package  to stimulate the economy.
  C.R .  E .  A .  M.:  Yang is perhaps the prominent advocate of UBI and popularized the idea that every American should receive $1,000 monthly from the federal government during his unorthodox candidacy. 
  The former tech executive added that there might very well be an appetite to implement UBI on a permanent basis once “people will find that it works and is very powerful and effective … but we are in crisis mode and need to get money into people's hands as quickly as possible.”  
  The overall price tag of the economic stimulus package being hashed out by the White House and Congress currently stands at around $1 trillion dollars, Mnuchin told lawmakers,  per our colleagues  —   “making it one of the largest federal emergency fiscal packages ever assembled.”  
  Not reinventing the wheel:  It's not the first time that cash has been doled out during a crisis —  our colleague Heather Long reports  this has been done by the government twice before. 
  BIDEN ROMPS AGAIN:  “Former vice president Joe Biden swept to decisive wins in Florida, Illinois and Arizona, extending his run of victories on a primary election day,”  our colleagues Michael Scherer, Annie Linskey and Sean Sullivan report  of “Super Tuesday III” that occurred amid a global pandemic.
  The Democratic primary is effectively over:  “The emphatic wins raised further questions about the viability of the campaign of Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.). It set Biden, who began the day leading the contest by more than 100 delegates, on a clear course to a first-ballot victory at the Democratic National Convention in July barring a seismic shift in the race’s dynamics,” our colleagues write.
  Biden's rout in Florida just made the math that much harder for Sanders:  “It wasn’t a surprise that he won, but yet again he won by even bigger margins than some polls showed and was able to rack up big-time delegates because of it,”  our colleague Aaron Blake reports . As of last night, Sanders needed about 6 in 10 remaining delegates to win.
  Voters Florida, Arizona and Illinois braved unprecedented conditions:  “Voters in Chicago confronted shuttered precincts, missing poll workers and confused officials struggling to administer an election during a public health crisis, a chaotic situation that voting advocates said created barriers for those trying to participate in the state’s Democratic presidential primary,”  our colleagues Elise Viebeck, Amy Gardner, Isaac Stanley-Becker and Mark Guarino report .
  THE PRESSURE MOUNTS ON SANDERS:  “With upcoming primaries likely to be postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic, Democrats increasingly worry that [Biden], who leads the race by a comfortable margin, might not be able to fully turn his focus to Trump before late summer if Sanders stays in,”  our colleague Sean Sullivan reports .
  The decision will be made by Sanders and his wife, Jane,:  They are “taking input from advisers but making the call on their own,” our colleague writes. “Many Democrats are waiting anxiously to see what Sanders says on Wednesday about the future of the race, if anything.”
  LIPINSKI BECOMES FIRST INCUMBENT TO LOSE IN 2020:  “Rep. Daniel Lipinski (D-Ill.), one of the last antiabortion Democrats in Congress, lost his bid for renomination to a ninth term to a more liberal challenger, business executive and activist Marie Newman,”  our colleague Mike DeBonis reports .
  The primary was closely watched nationally and was a rematch from 2018:  “The race had been closely watched as a test of whether a socially conservative Democrat could maintain support among the party’s base in a solid blue seat — and whether the dwindling number of Democratic lawmakers opposing abortion would be further culled by primary voters,” our colleague writes. 
  DEATH TOLL TOPS 100:  “Of the first 100 reported fatalities, many people appear to have had underlying health conditions, making it harder for their bodies to fight off covid-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus. Some had diabetes, kidney failure, hypertension or pulmonary ailments,”  our colleagues Reis Thebault, Abigail Hauslohner and Jacqueline Dupree report .
  The Post has tracked every known U.S. death : “Nearly all — about 85 percent — were older than 60, and about 45 percent were older than 80. It’s unclear how some of them contracted the disease, but more than a third were living in residential care facilities when they became ill,” our colleagues write.
  Cases are now in every single state and the District:  West Virginia was last state without a reported case, but  announced its first patient Tuesday .
  TRUMP SLOW IN ANSWERING PLEAS FOR HELP : Everything from hospital ships and Veterans Affairs Department surplus of beds to the Pentagon have yet to be fully tapped as the president and his administration struggle to bring the whole weight of the federal government to bear against the coronavirus,  the New York Times’s Eric Lipton, Zolan Kanno-Youngs and Helene Cooper report .
  This lag comes despite requests from governors around the country:  “New York pleaded for help from the Army Corps of Engineers to quickly build hospitals. Oregon’s governor repeatedly pressed the Department of Health and Human Services for hundreds of thousands of respirators, gowns and gloves, face shields or goggles,” the Times reports.
  Things do appear to be progressing:  “Defense Secretary Mark T. Esper said on … that the Pentagon will make available to the Department of Health and Human Services up to 5 million N95 masks, which can be used to help protect health workers and vulnerable people against the virus. The first 1 million, he said, would be available immediately,” the Times reports.
 