with Brent D. Griffiths
  Good morning, Power People. Hope you're all following  CDC  and state guidelines and staying socially distanced. Tips, comments, recipes? We need them now more than ever. Reach out and  sign up . Thanks for waking up with us. 
  DEM DEBATE, COVID-19 ED.:  Joe Biden and Bernie Sanders gave voters a snapshot of their versions of leadership amid the  coronavirus  pandemic during last night's surreal debate. In CNN's audience-less studio, Sanders and Biden stood six feet apart to tout their response plans.
  The former vice president criticized President Trump's response to the outbreak while the Vermont senator railed against the lack of a single-payer system that he argued has weakened the U.S. effort. Their answers underscored a fundamental rift between them: a referendum on Trump by Biden and an indictment of the system by Sanders.
  After bumping elbows in lieu of a handshake,  both Democrats criticized Trump's handling of the pandemic. The two agreed on some immediate measures:  “Both candidates support federal subsidies for testing and treatment of the new virus,”  per our colleagues  Matt Viser, Jenna Johnson and Michael Scherer.  They also agreed to deploy the U.S. military to respond aggressively to the crisis. 
  But while Biden focused on immediate measures to be taken with regards to testing, hospital capacity and the economic fallout, Sanders argued the crisis highlights the “dysfunctionality” of the current system – and the need for Medicare-for-all: 
  Biden rejected Sanders's critique and stuck to his opposition to single-payer health care:  “With all due respect to Medicare-for-all, you have a single-payer system in Italy,” Biden said. “It doesn’t work there… That would not solve the problem at all.”
  Sanders continued to plug Medicare-for-all and his policy agenda while Biden highlighted his executive experience and crisis-specific solutions:  
  The pair tangled on past bailouts but were more vague on future ones: Sanders sought to  re-litigate Biden's past votes on the Iraq War and Social Security. He also lit into Biden for voting to bail out the financial service industry when both were serving in Congress in 2008. (Sanders stretched some of the record, which  our resident fact-checker Glenn Kessler explored).  But it is far less clear what either would do for the airline, cruise and hotel industries, all three of which Trump and his team  have reportedly considered financial support  for as the coronavirus hits their bottom lines.
  VEEPSTAKES:  Biden also made news for taking the unprecedented step of committing to pick a woman as his running mate if he is the Democratic nominee. He also promised to nominate a black woman to the Supreme Court. Sanders responded that he’d pick a female Veep “in all likelihood” but did not commit to it, stressing that a running mate with progressive credentials would take precedence.
  A first:  “ … Biden’s firm public commitment that he would select a woman as his running mate in the event he stays atop the Democratic race and is the party’s 2020 nominee is historically unprecedented:  No major candidate has ever made such a pledge based on demographic characteristics, nor has one narrowed the field of potential vice presidential nominees this early in the year, several months before the decision is usually made,”   Politico’s John Harris writes. 
  CLIMATE CONVO:  Sanders was able to push Biden on one policy issue — fracking, a drilling process  to recover gas and oil from shale rock.  
  “No more — no new fracking,”  Biden said after Sanders singled out his plan to combat climate change. 
  FED MAKES LARGEST INTERVENTION SINCE GREAT RECESSION:  “The Federal Reserve announced on Sunday it would drop interest rates to zero and buy at least $700 billion in government and mortgage-related bonds as part of a wide-ranging emergency action to protect the economy from the impact of the coronavirus outbreak,”  our colleague Heather Long reports .
  But stock futures tanked even after the extraordinary intervention:  “Stock market futures hit ‘limit down’ levels of 5 percent lower, a move made by the CME futures exchange to reduce panic in markets. No prices can trade below that threshold, only at higher prices than that down 5 percent limit ,” CNBC’s Fred Imbert reports .
  CDC RECOMMENDS HALTING GATHERINGS OF 50 OR MORE:  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is urging a nationwide halt of gatherings of 50 or more people for eight weeks,  our colleagues Katie Mettler, Kim Bellware, Lateshia Beachum, Hannah Natanson, Hannah Knowles and Teo Armus report .
  States and cities have  begun imposing  harsher measures:  Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine (R) and Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker (D) ordered all bars and restaurants closed in their states — in Ohio indefinitely and in Illinois through the end of the month, our colleagues write.
  What's happening in the District:  “D.C. Mayor Muriel E. Bowser (D) announced new restrictions on bars and restaurants Sunday, including bans on bar seating and service to standing patrons, but stopped short of closing them altogether,”  our colleague Justin Jouvenal reports . The city is move forward on shuttering night clubs.
  What the experts are saying:  “ I think Americans should be prepared that they are going to have to hunker down significantly more than we as a country are doing,”  Anthony S. Fauci , director of the National Institute"of Allergy and Infectious Diseases,  told NBC’s Chuck Todd on  “ Meet the Press . ”
  INSIDE THE WHITE HOUSE'S CHAOTIC RESPONSE:  “The administration’s struggle to mitigate the coronavirus outbreak has been marked by infighting and blame-shifting, misinformation and missteps, and a slow recognition of the danger,”  our colleagues Ashley Parker, Philip Rucker, Yasmeen Abutaleb and Josh Dawsey reported  over the weekend.
  Trump's Friday news conference offered a perfect example: “ [The president], habitually in salesman mode, has long had a tendency to overpromise and overhype deals he is announcing, whether for a new condo development or bilateral trade,” our colleagues write. 
  Key quote:  “People just show up in the Oval and spout off ideas,” said a former senior administration official briefed on the coronavirus discussions. “He’ll either shoot down ideas or embrace ideas quickly. It’s an ad hoc free-for-all with different advisers just spitballing.” 
  I CAN GO THE (SOCIAL) DISTANCE:  Many of you were supposed to be someplace else this weekend. So, for those you who can social distance, but did not (ahem!) we’re here to help you find your way. Help flatten the curve --- it’s not a Herculean effort. And we have  our colleague Harry Stevens’s incredible graphics  to help explain why this is absolutely necessary.
   Now, you can go from zero to hero just like that.
 