with Brent D. Griffiths
  Good morning, Power Uppers. Hope everyone is hanging in there with good snacks, adequate amounts of toilet paper and intermittent fresh air breaks. Tips, comments, self-quarantine coping mechanisms? Write me at Jacqueline.Alemany@washpost.com and thanks for waking up with us. 
  BREAKING/ PSA:  
  HOW TO RUN A DIGITAL CAMPAIGN, CORONAVIRUS EDITION:  In a time of social distancing, quarantines, and increasingly limited human contact, there is still a presidential – not to mention congressional – campaigns to run.  Candidates are having to get creative about their contacts with voters they can no longer shake hands with or address in large, public rallies. 
  The new normal has thrown their organizations for a major loop in an enormously consequential election year, rendering traditional voter contact programs moot as people follow Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines to hunker down at hom e. 
  Federal and state officials are working to  modify or delay elections  so that voters can cast their ballots without fear of contracting covid-19. And campaigns are scrambling to build out digital programs and shifting their voter contact strategies.
  Town halls, rallies, fundraisers, and canvassing – in the traditional sense – have all been put on hold, with staffers devising creative ways to keep campaigns running online and through Skype, Zoom video conferencing and FaceTime.  
  Some campaigns, however, are better equipped for the transition than others.  Those who have already invested in robust digital programs are well positioned to continue business close to usual. One of the most innovative programs created in 2020, however, was for a former Democratic presidential contender. 
  Another strategy utilized by former and current campaigns to increase voter turnout from home is  relational organizing,  which calls on a volunteer to harness their personal network and contact list to reach out to somebody they already know and ask for their vote. 
  Another ex-presidential contender, former New York Mayor Mike Bloomberg, is providing  current campaigns who have the budget with a road map for smarter digital engagement. While his team was derided for some of the content, they enlisted paid influencers and micro-influencers to post and persuade different audiences in support of Bloomberg's short-lived candidacy. 
  The robust digital operation run by the Trump campaign is well documented.  The president's campaign released a statement last week touting efforts to include “virtual events with top surrogates,  holding virtual events with top surrogates, utilizing online platforms to train thousands of members of the Trump Neighborhood Team, activating the massive volunteer network to make calls to rally support for the President in states voting soon, and increasing online voter registration efforts of Trump rally attendees identified as not currently registered to vote.”  
  Ben Wessel, the executive director of the progressive group NextGen America, told Power Up that this moment is an opportunity for campaigns and state and federal officials to modernize the election system by implementing online voter registration and ensuring that as many people as possible have ballot access. 
  And with young people having more time on their hands due to school closures and mitigation efforts, Wessel said that NextGen has a “very captive audience … full of digital natives.” 
  MARKETS PLUNGE IN WORST DAY SINCE 1987:  “Fears that policymakers have not done enough to avert a protracted economic downturn deepened a sense of national crisis Monday and sent stocks to their worst single-day losses since the Black Monday crash of 1987,”  our colleague David J. Lynch reports .
  Here's how historically bad the day was:  “The Dow Jones industrial average closed down nearly 13 percent in late trading before closing at 20,188, down more than 2,997 for the day,” our colleague writes. “That marked the largest one-day point decline in U.S. history, though in percentage terms Monday’s 13 percent loss was topped by the nearly 23 percent decline on Oct. 19, 1987. All three of the Dow’s 2,000-point daily losses have occurred in the past week.
  But:  "Stock futures were only marginally higher Tuesday morning, giving back more than 1,000 points in after-hours trading, after Wall Street suffered massive losses on Monday amid concerns over the economic impact from the  coronavirus  outbreak.Around 5:40 a.m. ET, Dow Jones Industrial Average futures indicated an implied open of less than 50 points. S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100 futures were also higher,"  CNBC's Fred Imbert reports. 
  CONGRESS BEGINS WORK ON NEW RELIEF BILL:  “Congressional leaders and White House officials began work Monday on a massive new coronavirus relief bill that could contain major economic stimulus for corporations and consumers,”  our colleagues Erica Werner, Paul Kane, Jeff Stein and Seung Min Kim report . 
  The legislation could cost hundreds of billions of dollars:  “Senate Democrats also have an ambitious wish-list. Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) proposed a  $750 billion package  to address everything from hospital capacity and loan forbearance to treatment affordability and remote learning,” our colleagues write.  Republicans think the total cost of their proposal could be even higher. 
  But the Hill still needs to sort out the current aid package:  “The legislation — which passed just before 1 a.m. Saturday after a flurry of last-minute negotiations — required technical changes that threatened to hold up Senate action. Those legislative fixes were hammered out Monday and passed by the House Monday evening,” our colleagues write.
  NEW TONE FROM TRUMP:  “Trump for weeks dismissed the danger of the novel coronavirus … And then on Monday, nearly eight weeks after the first coronavirus case was reported in the United States,  Trump conveyed that he at last recognizes the magnitude of the crisis that is threatening lives across the nation, disrupting the economy and fundamentally upending the daily rhythms of American life,”  our colleague Philip Rucker reports .
  Fauci QOTD:  “ I’ll say it over and over again. When you’re dealing with an emerging infectious diseases outbreak,  you are always behind where you think you are if you think that today reflects where you really are ,” Anthony Fauci,  the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, told reporters at the daily covid-19 task force briefing. 
  Frustration from nation's governors spilled over earlier in the day:  “Trump t old a group of governors on Monday morning that they should not wait for the federal government to fill the growing demand for respirators needed to treat people with  coronavirus,”  the Times's Jonathan Martin reports . 
  WHAT'S HAPPENING IN THE DMV:  As of Monday, 101 people have tested positive for the coronavirus,  our colleagues Dana Hedgpeth and John Woodrow Cox report . And for answers to all of your virus-related local questions, make sure to save  our colleague Jenna Portnoy's guide . 
  As of last night: 
  What else you need to know: 
  ITALY'S HISTORIC DISASTER:  “In the part of Italy hit hardest by the coronavirus, the crematorium has started operating 24 hours a day … The local newspaper's daily obituary section has grown from two or three pages to 10, sometimes listing more than 150 names, in what the top editor likens to ‘war bulletins,’”  our colleagues Chico Harlan and Stefano Pitrelli report from Rome .
  THE U.K. IS TAKING A DIFFERENT APPROACH:  “Britain's neighbors in Europe are shutting down the continent to confront [the coronavirus]: locking pubs in Dublin and cafes in Paris, closing schools, enacting curfews and enforcing quarantines not seen since the Middle Ages,”  our colleague William Booth reports from London .
  WADDLE WE DO WITHOUT THEM:  Despite being closed off to the public, some residents of Chicago's Shed Aquarium were able to exercise their happy feet.
 