with Brent D. Griffiths
  Good morning, Power people.  This  is utterly tragic but please send it to anyone in your life who is not taking this thing seriously. Reminder: Stay. At. Home.  
  Now, how's everyone doing? Our friends at the Pineapple Collaborative have a  great guide for social distancing  full of excellent recommendations/ recipes. We've been cooking – shakshuka, chocolate babka french toast, a failed go at meatballs… – so please do reach out,  sign up , and send tips, comments, recipes.  
  Thanks for waking up with us. Stay safe.  
  ON THEIR OWN:  The federal government has finally launched a raft of measures to protect Americans during the  coronavirus  pandemic that's threatening a stinging recession while the number of infections and deaths in the U.S. worsens. 
  The Trump administration outlined what might be the largest rescue package in U.S. history  —  a $1 trillion plan  that includes $500 billion in direct cash payments to individual taxpayers, $300 billion for a small business loan program, $50 billion for airlines and $150 billion for other “severely distressed sectors.” 
  Further confusion:  " Jared Kushner, President Trump’s son-in-law and a senior adviser, has created his own team of government allies and private industry representatives to work alongside the administration’s official coronavirus task force , adding another layer of confusion and conflicting signals within the White House’s disjointed response to the crisis … Two senior officials said some government officials have become increasingly confused as they have received emails from private industry employees on Kushner’s team and have been on conference calls with them , unsure what their exact role is in the government response. Several people involved in the response said the involvement of outside advisers — who are emailing large groups of government employees from private email addresses — also raises legitimate security concerns about whether these advisers are following proper government protocols," our colleagues  Yasmeen Abutaleb ,  Ashley Parker  and  Josh Dawsey  report. 
  President Trump yesterday rolled out a number of other emergency measures as his administration significantly scaled up its response following intense criticism from the states about a lack of tests and general support from Washington. 
  What the Trump administration IS doing: 
  Trump announced he'd be invoking the Defense Production Act  to “ help make up for potential medical supply shortages and deploy two hospital ships as the  U.S.  battles  the coronavirus pandemic,” per  CNN's Maeghan Vazquez. “ An executive order issued Wednesday afternoon indicated that the president will use the act to obtain ‘health and medical resources needed to respond to the spread of covid-19, including personal protective equipment and ventilators.’”
  But the federal government has been slow to kick into action and it could be weeks before some of measures take effect, leaving the states still largely on their own.  
  Shortages of basic supplies remain, mass layoffs have already begun and the slowed response has not been sufficient for a majority of Americans: “ Just 46 percent of Americans now say the federal government is doing enough to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, down from 61 percent in February,” per an  NPR/ PBS NewsHour / Marist poll released earlier this week.  
  Tone at the top : Big gaps in the federal response have forced local and state officials to implement their own uneven measures that threaten to exacerbate the crisis. 
  But there has been a notable shift from Trump as the crisis worsens.  The change came   “ came four days after  an internal report from the Department of Health and Human Services  — not yet shared with the public — concluded that the 'pandemic will last 18 months or longer and could include multiple waves of illness,'” per the New York Times's  Eric Lipton, Zolan Kanno-Youngs and Helene Cooper.  
  Nonetheless, much of the administration's resources are still not being fully utilized: 
  What the federal government ISN'T yet doing: 
  TWO MEMBERS OF CONGRESS TEST POSITIVE:  “Reps. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-Fla.) and Ben McAdams (D-Utah) said they began developing symptoms on Saturday evening, less than 24 hours after they had stood on the crowded House floor and voted for the coronavirus relief package,”  our colleague Colby Itkowitz reports .
  Congress isn’t really prepared for something like this:  Capitol Hill does have contingency plans, but those who helped update them after 9/11 said they envisioned the attack from an outside force not something within their own walls like a virus,  our colleague Paul Kane reports .
  TRUMP WILL BE HAPPY: The Fed announced another major intervention, its seventh this week:  “The Federal Reserve announced late Wednesday it is establishing a special backstop for money market mutual funds, which typically serve as risk-free places for investors to store cash,”  our colleague Heather Long reports .
  The latest:  “European stocks were up slightly in early trading on Thursday, as investors took heart from efforts by officials in the United States and Europe to shore up the world economy. London’s FTSE 100 index opened up 0.2 percent. In Germany, the DAX index was up 0.5 percent. Stocks in France rose more than 2 percent in early trading,"  reports  the Times.
  Crazy:  The New York Stock exchange  announced it  will close its physical trading floor on Marc 23 and move to electronic transactions after traders tested positive for covid-19, the first time this has happened.
  Not happy:  “The Dow Jones industrial average sank nearly 1,339 points or 6.3 percent to finish at 19,898.92. Both the broader Standard & Poor’s 500 index and the technology-laden Nasdaq lost about 5 percent. Trading at one point was halted for the fourth time in six sessions when stocks tripped a circuit-breaker designed to prevent panic selling,”  our colleagues David J. Lynch, Thomas Heath and Taylor Telford report .
  The Dow has almost erased its entire gains under Trump:  “From a purely political standpoint, presidents have tended to avoid claiming too much credit for the markets because stocks that go up inevitably come down. That’s a lesson Trump may be learning this week: On Wednesday, the Dow Jones industrial average came within 75 points of his Inauguration Day close,”  our colleague Christopher Ingraham reports .
  JPMorgan Chase economists now predict the economy will shrink at a stark rate:  “After growing without interruption since mid-2009, the U.S. economy will likely shrink in the second quarter  at an annual rate of 14 percent  —  a staggering decline that exceeds the worst of the global financial crisis ,” our colleagues write.
  WHAT WE CAN LEARN FROM ASIA:  “Political will, dedicated resources, sophisticated tracking and a responsible population have kept coronavirus infections and deaths in Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore relatively low. South Korea, with more deaths, has led the way in widespread testing,”  our colleagues Shibani Mahtani and Simon Denyer report  from Hong Kong.
  How did they do it?:  They were ready to act based on past experiences with similar viral outbreaks. 
  Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore pulled out all stops to enforce quarantines:  
  CHINA REPORTS NO NEW LOCAL INFECTIONS:  “All 34 infections diagnosed in China on Wednesday were in people arriving into the country from abroad, the National Health Commission said today,  marking a significant milestone in the country where the virus was first recorded ,”  our colleagues Siobhán O'Grady and Teo Armus report . 
  THE LATEST FROM THE DMV:  “The Washington region’s total number of novel coronavirus cases grew to 203 on Wednesday. Maryland added 23, bringing the state’s total to 86. Virginia reported 10 more cases, for a total of 77 … The District reported eight new patients Wednesday evening, bringing its total to 40 cases,”  our colleagues Dana Hedgpeth and Justin Jouvenal report .
  Other metro-area developments:  
  73 D.C. firefighters and first responders are under quarantine:  “A second D.C. firefighter has tested positive … and officials are tracing that person’s contacts with colleagues and community members, the fire department announced,”  our colleague Peter Hermann reports . 
  Hogan has not ruled out closing schools for the rest of the year:  He said “that the statewide, two-week school closure was ‘to give us time’ to determine how to do distance learning for students ,” our colleague Erin Cox reports .
  If you need to get around:  Our colleague Luz Lazo has the latest changes .
  Can you safely see the cherry blossoms?:  “Although the park is not closed, we encourage all visitors, particularly the most vulnerable, including the elderly and people with underlying conditions, to make smart decisions and to follow CDC guidance to help reduce the spread of covid-19,”  Mike Litterst, the National Park Service spokesman for the Mall and Memorial Parks  told our colleague Jason Samenow . 
  You can get beer and some liquor delivered in D.C. Seriously:  Bars and restaurants can deliver closed containers, including hard liquor, with a prepared food item (a.k.a. not a bag of chips). Establishments must register with the city, keep deliveries within the District's borders and verify buyers are 21 or older,  our colleague Fenit Nirappil reports .
 