Good morning and happy Super Tuesday! Tips, comments, recipes? You know what's up. Thanks for waking up with us.  
  YOUR (PROACTIVE) GUIDE TO SUPERDELEGATES:  With  1,357 pledged delegates   at stake today,  Super Tuesday will go a ways in determining if there's a clear front-runner in the Democratic primary or if we have a long slog ahead. 
  Meaning there's still a  chance  the nomination battle drags on through the Democratic convention in Milwaukee this summer, resulting in a rare contested convention that  hasn’t occurred for either major party in almost 70 years .  
  That became less likely as the moderate wing of the party moved rapidly to coalesce behind former vice president  Joe Biden  after his South Carolina win over fears that  Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.),  the front-runner so far, is gaining unstoppable momentum . But Biden's push to make this a two-person race isn't guaranteed, and the party is still fractured enough that there could very well be a muddled picture and continued infighting moving ahead. 
  Nonetheless, Biden's campaign rolled out endorsements all yesterday from party bigwigs and ex-rivals and appeared in Dallas last night with former South Bend, Ind., mayor  Pete Buttigieg  and  Sen. Amy Klobuchar  (Minn.), as well as former Rep.  Beto O'Rourke   (Texas).
  Yet former New York mayor  Mike Bloomberg  and   Sen. Elizabeth Warren   (Mass.) remain in the race and might very well prevent Biden's push to make this a two-man race. Depending on the delegate picture in a post-Super Tuesday world, it's possible no candidate successfully captures a clear majority of delegates (1,991) necessary to secure the Democratic nomination. 
  With this in mind, we are closely eyeing the power of superdelegates:  771 former presidents, vice presidents, current members of Congress, members of the Democratic National Committee and other party bigwigs who vote at the Democratic National Convention. These officials are officially known as “automatic delegates” and their votes are not tied to specific primary and caucus results. 
  The key:  In a bid to stop superdelegates from wielding too much power, DNC rules were changed to prevent them from voting on the first ballot in the event no candidate has a majority going into the convention. However, superdelegates can vote on the second ballot and could then have significant sway over who wins. 
  The “pledged delegates”:  There will also be nearly 4,000 pledged delegates  in Milwaukee. Technically speaking, these delegates are not bound to presidential candidates but they tend to represent the will of the voters in their state. That could change, however, after the first ballot.
  Endorsements aren’t a guarantee:  Candidates who back other candidates are traditionally viewed as also pledging the support of their delegates, but there’s nothing requiring a delegate for a candidate who drops out to support whomever that candidate has endorsed. 
  What changed from 2016?: The rules change was pushed by  Sanders  allies  fighting to diffuse the influence of party leaders following the rowdy 2016 nomination battle. Sanders, however, did not get everything he wanted as elements of the party , including the Congressional Black Caucus , vocally defended the role played by superdelegates. But the restriction on voting in the first round is a significant change.
  Times are changing:  Sanders, who now leads in pledged delegates,  says  he thinks the candidate with the most pledged delegates – even if they fall short of the majority – should win the nomination this summer. In 2016, he encouraged superdelegates to flout primary voters and embrace him instead of Hillary Clinton.
  Not so spoiled : This fight over the role and power of superdelegates has been around for a long time. And it's true they have yet to play spoiler before by breaking from the decision made by primary and caucus voters.
  FEARS OF CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK SPREAD:  “The U.S. death toll from the coronavirus rose to six on Monday, and patients were being treated in at least 15 states, deepening fears about the outbreak's rapid spread and the medical, psychological and economic toll it will exact on the United States,”  our colleagues Maria Sacchetti, Arelis R. Hernández, Siobhán O'Grady and William Wan report .
  There are now more than 100  coronavirus  case nationwide:  “We know there will be more cases,” Vice President Pence said at a White House news conference. “Now we’re focused on mitigation of the spread as well as treatment of people that are affected.”
  Wall Street rebounds:  “Major U.S. stock indexes rallied sharply as investors grew optimistic that the Federal Reserve and other central banks would soon intervene to limit the economic impact from the spread of the novel coronavirus,”  our colleagues Rachel Siegel and Thomas Heath reports .
  Lawmakers are nearing a deal for funding:  Congress is closing in on a $7.5 billion package to combat coronavirus, our colleagues report, citing two people familiar with negotiations. The current number dwarfs the $1.5 billion proposal the White House initially put on the table last week.
  PENCE FACES DIFFICULT TEST:  “Behind Vice President Mike Pence’s steady demeanor and steely look since taking charge of the U.S. government response to coronavirus is a cruel truth: He will emerge either as the architect of a successful containment strategy — boosting his own résumé and [Trump’s] reelection odds — or deal a potentially fatal blow to his political aspirations,”  Politico's Gabby Orr reports .
  Knives out for Azar:  Officials say Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar is being blamed for fail[ing] t o coordinate the response, as agency chiefs waited for instructions that came too late and other deputies were largely cut out of the process, ”   Politico's Dan Diamond and Adam Cancryn report . 
  NETANYAHU'S COMEBACK:  “Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu vaulted ahead of his main challenger in national elections, according to exit polls, with the strong showing by his Likud party bringing him to the brink of a parliamentary majority,”  our colleague Steve Hendrix and Ruth Eglash report  from Jerusalem.
  SCOTUS GOES FOR OBAMACARE TRILOGY:  “The Supreme Court said it will review the latest Republican efforts to doom the Affordable Care Act, guaranteeing that partisan battles over health care will remain at the forefront of public debate in the closing weeks of the presidential campaign,”  our colleague Robert Barnes reports .
 