with Brent D. Griffiths
  Good Tuesday morning, Power People. Comments, recipes, tips on  who killed Don Lewis ? Reach out and  sign up . Thanks for waking up with us.  
  NOT APRIL FOOLS':   Bills are due tomorrow. It's the first of potentially many looming deadlines that Americans across the country, hit by the  coronavirus  pandemic, may miss.  
  After parts of the U.S. economy temporarily shuttered to slow the spread of the deadly virus, the  third and largest stimulus package  in American history enacted last week will provide some relief for the tsunami of 3.28 million Americans  who filed  for unemployment benefits last month. It will also provide billions of dollars in  support for hospitals  bracing for an influx of patients. 
  But Democrats are already concerned that a fourth round of stimulus legislation will be necessary in order to continue to buoy the U.S. economy and American workers amid the coronavirus crisis.  Lawmakers and advocates for the disadvantaged – including low-income people who may not have filed tax returns over the last two years, the homeless, and disabled veterans, may have trouble collecting on the government promise to help them during the pandemic. 
  House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), along with  House Energy and Commerce Committee Chair  Frank Pallone Jr.  and House Education and Labor Chair  Robert C. “Bobby” Scott , l aid out what exactly House Democrats want to see in an additional measure during a conference call with reporters on Monday. 
  Advocates and community groups working with some of the most vulnerable Americans told Power Up that a fourth stimulus package should directly further address the communities most likely to be hit the hardest by covid-19, the disease caused by coronavirus. 
  They argue the third stimulus package – with its direct cash payments, extended and increased unemployment coverage, and $12 billion in funding for federal housing and rental assistance –   doesn't go far enough  in supporting disabled, homeless, and impoverished constituencies. 
  A national eviction freeze : Over  $12 billion was included in that stimulus  for federal housing and rental assistance, along with protections against foreclosures and evictions for those who live in public housing or have federally backed mortgage loans. The measures, however, do not cover those who are facing foreclosures and evictions from all affordable housing providers. 
  Another issue:  Advocates are also looking to ensure that low-income individuals are automatically eligible for stimulus checks. As it stands, the cash assistance payments are being tied to 2019 and 2018 tax filings. Those who have not filed tax returns recently will have a tougher time obtaining getting direct cash payments.
  TRUMP'S CHANGE OF HEART ALSO INCLUDED POLITICS:  “Aides and advisers say the president was heavily influenced by briefings from scientific and public health officials, as well as by the stark reality of the virus, including projections of greater deaths depending on what measures the government takes,”  our colleagues Ashley Parker, Josh Dawsey and Yasmeen Abutaleb report .
  But campaign officials and political allies were also in his ear:  “They arg[ued] that a spike in deaths could be even more politically damaging in November than the current economic downturn, according to two of the people familiar with the discussions. Campaign officials declined to comment,” our colleagues write.
  OFFICIALS SAY AS MANY AS 200,000 PEOPLE COULD DIE:  “Deborah Birx, the White House coronavirus coordinator, told NBC News that the United States could record 200,000 deaths  even ‘if we do things together well, almost perfectly,’”  our colleagues Matt Zapotosky, John Wagner and Marisa Iati report .
  HEADLINES FROM THE HOT SPOTS:  Power Up's continuing look at how the virus is affecting states and cities throughout the country.
  NEW YORK:  
  A hospital ship arrived in New York:  “The 1,000-bed USNS Comfort will be used as a ‘relief valve,’ treating non-coronavirus patients while the city’s increasingly stressed hospitals handle people with covid-19, Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) said,”  the Associated Press's Tom Hays and Marina Villeneuve report .
  Over 900 people have now died in New York City:  “ The number of virus-related deaths in New York City rose to 914 Monday afternoon, up 138 from around the same time Sunday, officials said,”  per the New York Times . 
  Cuomo's popularity is soaring:  The governor has stressed this is no time for politics, but his approval rating has skyrocketed as his state endures the outbreak.    As the headline of  our colleagues  Sarah Ellison and Ben Terris's story  pointed out, Cuomo “is the same as ever, with one big difference: People like him.”
  CALIFORNIA: 
  Hospitalizations are surging in the state:  “Between Friday and Monday, the number of California patients hospitalized with covid-19 in intensive-care beds nearly tripled to 597 from 200.  The number of hospitalizations has nearly doubled, from 746 to 1,432 ,”  the Los Angeles Times's Melody Gutierrez and Taryn Luna reports .
  THE ENTIRE DMV WILL SOON BE UNDER STAY AT HOME ORDERS:  “Maryland, Virginia and the District barred residents from leaving home unless it’s absolutely necessary, joining a handful of other states that have issued such orders in hopes of controlling the fast-spreading novel coronavirus,”  our colleagues Antonio Olivo, Ovetta Wiggins and Gregory S. Schneider report .
  TL;DR compliance is no longer optional:  “We are no longer asking or suggesting Marylanders to stay home, Hogan said during a news conference in Annapolis. “We are directing them.”  All three orders carry the possibility of large fines and jail time for violators, or both.  
  What else will change:  We'll repeat this just to make sure it's clear: If you live in the DMV, you can still leave your home for essential reasons. To answer your many other questions,  our colleague Rebecca Tan has put together a very helpful guide . If you want to read the full text of each order, we've linked them here:  D.C .,  Virginia  and  Maryland .
  New York's Empire State building honored front-line health workers:
 