with Brent D. Griffiths
  Good morning and Happy Thursday. Onpassing some wisdom from  Ina Garten today :  “During a crisis, you know, cocktail hour can be almost any hour." Hope you're all staying safe and staying home.  
  PASSING THE BUCK:  When Anica Henderson took a leave of absence from her job at a caregiving agency to watch her daughter after New York closed schools during the  coronavirus  pandemic, she wasn't sure how she was going to afford groceries, pay her cellphone or utility bills and then cover her rent.
  It's not like she had any other options:  the 28-year-old single mother doesn't have other family to rely on, can't afford a babysitter and didn't want to put her 6-year-old asthmatic daughter who had her tonsils removed in January at risk of catching the novel coronavirus. So, Henderson received a check for the two paid sick days she had accumulated this year and planned on just “being broke” and “holding it out” until the virus subsided. 
  A recipient of food stamps under the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program  (or  SNAP ), Henderson visited the app she uses to manage her SNAP balance  — via an electronic benefit transfer (EBT) card  made by the company Propel  —  when she noticed an option to receive “free money” by March 28.  
  Henderson was one of 200 people who last week received cash assistance from a partnership between  GiveDirectly,  a  nonprofit  known for transferring money to low-income Africans, and Propel's Fresh EBT app.  Leveraging their existing database of over 500,000 daily active users, Propel quickly identified Americans who get SNAP benefits, and those in low-income households, so GiveDirectly could send them money as soon as possible. 
  Like other nongovernmental groups and private businesses shifting gears during the pandemic, GiveDirectly  —  which says  it's the  largest nonprofit allowing donors to “send money directly to the world's poor ”   —  is now pivoting to help the thousands of Americans who have lost their jobs or are enduring other economic hardships as Americans have been urged to stay home until at least the end of April. The nonprofit has already committed to doling out $10 million for cash transfers of $1,000 to 9,000 American families. 
  GiveDirectly hopes to ramp up its giving to  1,000 recipient s next week, who can receive cash via a  prepaid  card, bank transfer, mailed check, Venmo, PayPal or through a money-gram agent.  The group's distribution system is so efficient that Jeff Kaiser, Propel's chief operating officer, told Power Up the Treasury Department has been in touch with his team over how best to distribute $1,200 to many Americans under the stimulus package. 
  Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service are struggling to figure out how to get the stimulus cash as quickly as possible into the hands of recipients  — at first, it seemed like only those who filed a 2019 would get the money, even though the federal government has account information for Social Security recipients who don't make enough to file taxes. But under pressure yesterday, the government reversed course and said it would distribute the cash regardless.
  #PassTheCheck: But people like Henderson will still have to wait an estimated three weeks for government checks, an eternity for those really struggling financially.  
  That's why GiveDirectly is rolling out a #PassTheCheck pledge.  The group is encouraging Americans “about to receive government checks even though they might not need it,” to donate their check — or a portion of it — to help a low-income family. 
  Kaiser and Faye also hope to soon be able to target other low-income individuals as their partnership solidifies, like tip workers and undocumented immigrants, who aren't eligible for federal relief.  
  PENCE SAYS U.S. TRAJECTORY LOOKING MORE LIKE ITALY:  “Coronavirus deaths in the United States passed 4,600 Wednesday as Vice President Pence issued an ominous warning that America’s situation is most comparable to Italy’s struggle with the virus, which has pushed that nation’s hospitals to capacity and has left more than 13,000 people dead despite a weeks-long lockdown,”  our colleagues Matt Zapotosky, Nick Miroff and Ian Duncan report .
  One major private test provider has a significant backlog:  “New Jersey-based Quest Diagnostics had about  160,000 coronavirus test orders waiting to be processed on March 25 , which amounted to about half of the 320,000 total orders for the tests the company had received up to that date, according to Quest internal materials obtained by CNN,”  Drew Griffin, Curt Devine, Scott Bronstein and Nelli Black report . The company told CNN it has since reduced the backlog.
  FACUI'S SECURITY IS STEPPED UP:  “Anthony S. Fauci, the nation’s top infectious-diseases expert and the face of the U.S. response to the novel coronavirus pandemic, is facing growing threats to his personal safety, prompting the government to step up his security, according to people familiar with the matter,”  our colleagues Isaac Stanley-Becker, Yasmeen Abutaleb and Devlin Barrett report .
  HEADLINES FROM THE HOT SPOTS:  Power Up's continuing look at how the virus is affecting states and cities throughout the country.
  NEW YORK: 
  Cuomo said virus is “more dangerous than we expected.”:  “New cases this week drove the state’s total above 75,000, surpassing China’s Hubei province, where the virus emerged in December. The grim milestone was recorded as Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo acknowledged having underestimated how overwhelming the situation would become,”  our colleagues Ben Guarino and Isaac Stanley-Becker report  from New York.
  New York City approaches its “demarcation line.”:  Last month, Mayor Bill de Blasio (D) “repeatedly invoked April 5 as a ‘demarcation line’ after which the city could expect a huge surge in virus patients,”  the New York Times reports . That's only three days away.
  New data shows that low-income neighborhoods New Yorkers are getting hit the hardest:  “During the first month of the outbreak in the city — the epicenter of America’s coronavirus crisis — many of the neighborhoods with the most confirmed virus cases were in areas with the lowest median incomes, the data shows. The biggest hotspots included communities in the South Bronx and Western Queens,”  the Times's Larry Buchanan, Jugal K. Patel, Brian M. Rosenthal and Anjali Singhvi report .
  NEW JERSEY: 
  Gov. Phil Murphy (D) says fallout from the virus will last until “deep into May”:  “The governor told CNN’s Chris Cuomo [who has the virus] in an interview Wednesday night the Garden State is about to ‘get up at a very high level’ of positive cases and people needing hospitalization, and that ‘we’re going to stay there’ for some time,”  NJ Advance Media for NJ.com's Matt Arco reports .
  MICHIGAN: 
  The state saw its largest single-day jump in confirmed cases:  According to  The Post's tracker , Michigan reported 1,700 new cases to start off the month and now has a total of 9,315. 
  Detroit's mayor is so desperate for more testing that he woke up a company executive to plead his case:  “Mayor Mike Duggan said that he secured the cellphone number of Miles White -- the chairman and outgoing chief executive of Abbott Labs -- and woke him up Sunday morning to beg for the test, because he knew the whole country would be calling,”  our colleagues Steven Mufson, Juliet Eilperin and Josh Dawsey report .
  The state's unemployment claims system continues to be overwhelmed by demand:  “An ‘unprecedented’ surge in new unemployment claims as a result of the coronavirus crisis continues to overwhelm the Michigan Unemployment Insurance Agency, but ‘every eligible worker who files will receive their benefits,’ a spokesman said,”  MLive.com's Julie Mack reports .
  LOUISIANA: 
  The state announced its largest batch of tests processed in a single day:  That news came after New Orleans health director Jennifer Avegno called the delay in a private lab processing tests from drive-thru site in the city “unconscionable,”  the Times-Picayune | the Advocate's  Jeff Adelson and Matt Sledge report .
  From the Advocate's investigations editor:
  A New Orleans nurse became the first health worker in the state to die from the virus:  “ Larrice Anderson, a nurse at New Orleans East Hospital, tested positive for coronavirus and died this week, LCMC Health announced Wednesday afternoon. She was 46,”  the Times-Picayune | the Advocate's   Andrea Gallo and Emily Woodruff report .
  CALIFORNIA: 
  The state's trajectory shows that social distancing works:  “ Mandatory social distancing works. The earlier the better, preliminary data from two weeks of stay-at-home orders in California and Washington show,”  our colleagues Geoffrey A. Fowler, Heather Kelly and Reed Albergotti report from San Francisco . 
  Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti (D) ordered the power cut to nonessential business not obeying his order to shut down :  “The mayor’s order follows a crackdown from city prosecutors targeting businesses that have been deemed nonessential and yet have remained open for business and given more opportunities for the coronavirus to spread in Southern California,”  the Los Angeles Times's Hannah Fry, Ruben Vives, Taryn Luna and Rong-Gong Lin II report . Garcetti  also ordered  everyone in Los Angeles to wear nonmedical face masks in public.
  Gov. Gavin Newsom (D) expects public schools to be closed for the reminder of the academic year:  “The state is home to 12 percent of nation's school-aged children,”  the LA Times's Sonali Kohli and Howard Blume report .
  FLORIDA: 
  DeSantis finally relents and issues stay-at-home order:  “ Florida’s coronavirus test rates lag behind the national average. Its caseloads are exploding by the day. And a chorus of experts predict the state is on the cusp of a crippling contagion,”  Politico Florida's  Marc Caputo and Matt Dixon report  from Tallahassee of the expanding health concerns that combined with political pressure became too much for first-term Gov. Ron DeSantis (R) to bear. 
  The state saw also a second-day of 1,000-plus new cases:  “ As of 6 p.m. Wednesday, 1,033 more confirmed cases have been reported, upping the state total to at least 7,773 positive cases, according to the latest report from Florida health officials,”  the Miami Herald's Michelle Marchante and DeVoun Cetoute report . 
  OANN GETS BOOTED FROM THE PRESS ROOM:  One America News Network, a tiny conservative news outlet who Trump frequently calls on in his daily coronavirus briefings, has been removed from the rotation of reporters who get one of the limited seats in the White House briefing room after repeatedly violating the White House Correspondents' Association's strict social distancing guidelines,  our colleague Paul Farhi reports .
 