with Brent D. Griffiths 
  Good morning. It's Thursday. The U.S yesterday  reported 1,500 coronavirus deaths , the highest in a single day since mid-May.  
  GOING POSTAL:  Democrats troubled by mail delivery delays are now seeking to ban political leadership at the U.S. Postal Service from making any changes until the  coronavirus  pandemic (and, theoretically, the November election) has ended. But some key Democrats — along with a prominent union representing postal workers — suspect the Trump administration's  recent dramatic cost-cutting measures  and  blocked emergency relief  are setting the stage for a bigger goal: privatizing mail delivery in this country. 
  Rep. Gerald E. Connolly (D-Va.), chair of the Oversight subcommittee responsible for the Postal Service, told Power Up he believes the “immediate goal” of the overhaul by DeJoy, a President Trump appointee and donor, “is to suppress votes.” But  DeJoy's “very disruptive changes,” Connolly said, are also part of a “concerted effort to try to dissuade people from relying on the Postal Service by delaying timely deliveries — and in the longer term, to break apart and privatize USPS.”  
  DeJoy's denial did little to convince Mark Dimondstein, the president of the American Postal Workers Union, who said he was shocked when the postmaster general did not advocate for any money for the cash-strapped agency during his first public meeting on Friday.  “If someone really wants to help the Postal Service thrive and survive, then that should be front and center,” Dimondstein said. “We believe the administration is openly proposing and working toward privatization, breaking it up and getting ready to sell it.” 
  DeJoy's stance appears to align with Trump's own position:  The president said yesterday he would keep blocking funding for the agency even while he acknowledged USPS needs money for mail-in voting.  
  DeJoy's displacement of top executives overseeing day-to-day operations is fueling the speculation on the Hill and among postal workers that the ultimate goal is to privatize.  Jacob scooped last week:  “Twenty-three postal executives were reassigned or displaced, the new organizational chart shows. Analysts say the structure centralizes power around DeJoy  …  and de-emphasizes decades of institutional postal knowledge.”  DeJoy's other changes include eliminating overtime for workers and forbidding extra trips to ensure mail is delivered on time. 
  Dimondstein thinks these moves are the acceleration of a longtime ambition from the Trump administration, noting that in June 2018, the Office of Management and Budget released a report that openly called for privatization.  
  These suspicions trickle down to the workforce. One longtime postal worker told Power Up that DeJoy was clearly “forcing us into privatization.”  
  Save the date:  DeJoy is set to appear before the House Oversight panel on September 17 for a hearing on USPS's “ operation changes. ”
  BIDEN, HARRIS GO AFTER TRUMP:  “In what were perhaps the most crisp and focused speeches either has given during the presidential campaign, the new running mates defined how they will pursue the general election: with a sharp focus on what they cast as Trump’s inadequacies, an embrace of the power of women, a call to action on climate change and a defense of the protesters who have filled America’s streets in recent months,”  Annie Linskey and Matt Viser report  from Wilmington, Del.
  A scattershot attack:  “The messages emanating from Trump and his allies about the senator from California varied wildly — casting her as both an overzealous prosecutor too tough on crime and an advocate for defunding the police, and as being so far to the left she would institute socialism as well as too moderate to satisfy her party’s progressive base,”  Philip Rucker and Isaac Stanley-Becker write  of the GOP's struggles to find a consistent attack on Harris.
  Money, money money:  Biden announced last night that his campaign has raised $26 million since he announced his running mate, including 150,000 first-time contributions,   Matt reports .
  A ‘FUTURE REPUBLICAN STAR’?:  “Trump and Republican leaders’ embrace of a House candidate who has made racist statements and espoused the QAnon conspiracy theory is again highlighting the party’s willingness to tolerate extreme and bigoted positions,”  Rachael Bade and Isaac Stanley-Becker report .
  Trump declared Marjorie Taylor Greene, who prevailed in Georgia congressional primary, a  “future Republican star” :  “ Greene promotes the  QAnon conspiracy theory , whose followers believe Trump is battling a cabal of “deep state” saboteurs of his administration who worship Satan and traffic children for sex, ”  our colleagues write. 
  House Republicans are besides themselves on what to do now:  Many, our colleagues report, are privately griping about irresponsible leadership, but few are doing anything to challenge the party's position of supporting those who win the right to carry the GOP's banner into November or ask that Greene not be allowed to join the conference. 
  And a Trump campaign spokesman promptly admonished him: 
  House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) has said he would seat Greene on committees:  McCarthy ignored pleas from his members to wade into the primary to try to stop Greene. 
  Our colleagues found a handful of retiring GOP members who were willing to be quoted about Greene:  But this quote tells you pretty much everything. “We’re going to look like hypocrites,” one senior House Republican told them of the acceptance of her, who spoke on the condition of anonymity out of fear of retribution from party leaders.
  RELIEF PLAN TALKS ARE BARELY EVEN “TALKS” NOW:  “A new attempt to restart economic relief negotiations between the White House and Democrats ended just minutes after it began with [Trump] appearing to cast doubt on the whole process by announcing a deal is ‘not going to happen,’”  Erica Werner and Jeff Stein report .
  … But it plays on T.V.:  “The state of Washington gridlock came into full display during a 15-minute window Tuesday afternoon,”  Paul Kane writes  of dueling hits when Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell was ready to appear on Fox News followed shortly thereafter by Speaker Nancy Pelosi on CNN.
  OH, THE PLACES THEY'LL GO:  Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) will speak at next week's Democratic National Convention. But she'll  reportedly  only have a minute. As she reminded her followers of the power 60 seconds can hold, a familiar voice reminded her that she's ready.
 