with Brent D. Griffiths
  Good morning to the social distancers only. Tips, comments, recipes? Reach out and  sign up . Thanks for waking up with us.  
  THE BLAME-SHIFTING GAME:   President Trump is planning to target China in a new thrust to win reelection as his handling of the novel  coronavirus  pandemic has taken center stage.  
  Trump made the new tactic abundantly clear at his daily White House briefing on Tuesday,  announcing  the suspension of U.S. contributions to the World Health Organization because he claims it didn't act aggressively enough to curb the spread of the virus and is too close to China. 
  Earlier in the day,  a fundraising committee for Trump's reelection campaign amplified his anti-China messaging, urging supporters to “hold China accountable by contributing to his campaign” — “the first instance of his campaign using an anti-China message to raise money,” according to our  colleague Michelle Ye Hee Lee.  
  On Monday,  Trump reverted to using the term “Wuhan virus” to tie the global pandemic to a geographic location. And last week, his campaign released a controversial and  misleading  attack ad against presumptive Democratic nominee Joe Biden using  out-of-context  clips to paint the former vice president as supportive of China. The ad repeats accusations Biden and his son Hunter have financial interests with the Chinese government when there is  no evidence of such relationships.  
  Two-pronged attack: Trump campaign sources confirmed to Power Up the campaign has recalibrated its message to focus on China in two ways: as the culprit of the global pandemic, and as a cudgel against Biden . It's a strategy intended to buoy a president under fire for his handling of a virus that has killed nearly 25,000 people in the U.S. and sent the country into an economic recession, which isn't good for Trump's reelection hopes.
  Trump's own public statements however,  praised  China's response and President Xi Jinping. And his claims Biden opposed his order to restrict travel from China are also false — Biden has never made such a statement. In fact, the vice president issued several  public warnings  hinting at China's efforts to conceal the true extent of the outbreak in February: 
  And Biden hit back at the attack line:  “Donald Trump was soft on China when it mattered most to the American people: by failing to press them about the coronavirus outbreak and to insist our experts had access  —  like Joe Biden and a host of experts urged him to do. That is malpractice of historic proportions, and our country is paying a horrible price for it,” Biden campaign spokesman Andrew Bates told us. 
  Bates added that Trump prioritized U.S.-China trade negotiations over handling the outbreak.  
  China bashing is a tried-and-true tactic from some politicians on both sides of the aisle.  But strategists doubt American voters will buy into Trump's blanket blame of China instead of point the finger at the president for his own response to containing the virus.
  Political prognosticator Charlie Cook   wrote in August of 2019  Trump already faced a number of structural and historical challenges that positioned him as a potential historical underdog for reelection. The coronavirus only increases those headwinds, according to Cook. 
  Nevertheless, the GOP and conservative media outlets have echoed Trump's rhetoric on China:  GOP lawmakers like Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) have amplified conspiracy theories surrounding the origins of the virus and Senate Republicans announced a probe into the pandemic earlier this wee mainly focused on China. 
  Note to readers: We have updated our story to reflect Sen. Tom Cotton's (R-Ark.) belief that the most likely source of the novel coronavirus was animal to human transmission, perhaps from poor safety practices at a Chinese lab. 
  SIGN OF THE TIMES:  “The Treasury Department has ordered [Trump’s] name be printed on stimulus checks the Internal Revenue Service is rushing to send to tens of millions of Americans, a process that could slow their delivery by a few days, senior IRS officials said,”  Lisa Rein reports . Trump himself privately pitched the idea of emblazoning his John Hancock on the checks to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin whose department oversees the IRS.
  This is unprecedented:  “It will be the first time a president’s name appears on an IRS disbursement, whether a routine refund or one of the handful of checks the government has issued to taxpayers in recent decades either to stimulate a down economy or share the dividends of a strong one,” our colleague writes.
  MAY DAY:  “Trump has all but decided to begin declaring the country ready to get back to business on May 1, two current and two former senior administration officials said, but a scramble is underway inside the White House to determine how to stagger a reopening of the economy amid the novel coronavirus pandemic while also protecting Trump from any political fallout,”  Philip Rucker, Robert Costa and Ashley Parker report .
  Trump said he would “authorize” each governor to implement a plan to reopen their states. That is not the same as ordering them to do so, a declaration the president made Monday that he walked back last night:  “He said more than 20 states are in ‘extremely good shape’ and are poised to reopen their economies very soon, ‘maybe even before the date of May 1.’”
  FEMA and the CDC already have a draft strategic plan:  “The plan lays out three phases: Preparing the nation to reopen with a national communication campaign and community readiness assessment until May 1. Then, the effort through May 15 would involve ramping up manufacturing of testing kits and personal protective equipment and increasing emergency funding. Then staged reopenings would begin, depending on local conditions. The plan does not give dates for reopenings but specified ‘not before May 1,’”  Lena H. Sun, Josh Dawsey and William Wan scooped  after obtaining the document. (Read  the plan  yourself).
  BUT:  "The president has not committed to following the guidelines delineated in the draft," our colleagues report.
  TESTING CONTINUES TO LAG:  “The number of coronavirus tests analyzed each day by commercial labs in the U.S. plummeted by more than 30 percent over the past week, even though new infections are still surging in many states and officials are desperately trying to ramp up testing so the country can reopen,”  Politico's David Lim reports .
  Trump continues to say states must do testing on their own:  “ … The governors are responsible, they have to take charge, they have to do a great job, and we're going to suggest that they check people through tests or otherwise coming into their states, and they run their states very strong,” the president told reporters during his daily briefing.
  OBAMA RETURNS, BACKS BIDEN:  “Joe Biden’s week-long rollout of endorsements from a series of boldfaced political names is intended to emphatically place him as the leader of a Democratic Party whose factions are newly allied against a common opponent: [Trump],”  Sean Sullivan, Annie Linskey and Michael Scherer report .
  The former president is easily the biggest name to endorse Biden thus far:  “In a video that served as part endorsement and part political blueprint, Obama called on Americans to unite in a ‘great awakening’ in November and attested that his former vice president ‘has the character and the experience to guide us through one of our darkest times and heal us through a long recovery,’” our colleagues write. (You can read Obama's entire  12-minute message here )
  Real talk: we could be dealing with this for awhile:  “The US may have to endure social distancing measures -- such as stay-at-home orders and school closures -- until 2022, researchers projected … That is, unless, a vaccine becomes quickly available,”  CNN's Leah Asmelash and Maggie Fox report  of  new findings  from  researchers at Harvard's T.H. Chan School of Public Health. 
  Another sobering observation:  " I think people haven’t understood that this isn’t about the next couple of weeks,” Michael Osterholm, an infectious-disease epidemiologist at the University of Minnesota  told the Atlantic's  Ed Yong  about just how long this could drag out . “This is about the next two years.” 
  IMF expects a global recession:  “The International Monetary Fund said the pandemic is causing the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression of the 1930s …,”  David J. Lynch reports . “The new forecast represents an abrupt reversal from just three months ago, when the fund said the global economy would expand this year by 3.3 percent.”
  THE WILD THINGS ARE WHERE WE USED TO BE:  “For centuries, humans have pushed wildlife into smaller and smaller corners of the planet. But now, with billions in isolation and city streets emptied, nature is pushing back,” Terrence McCoy  reports  this morning.
 