with Brent D. Griffiths
  Good morning. It's Monday. Tips, comments, recipes? Reach out and  sign up . Thanks for waking up with us.  
  NOT SO ‘NORMAL’:  There’s no national testing strategy. Few  reliable  antibody tests. And a new  Wall Street Journal/ NBC News  poll out this weekend showed 60 percent of the country is afraid of going back to work. But Trump says it’s time to start reopening the country to get things back to “normal.”
  But the “new normal” isn't the normal Trump is seeking, say doctors, governors, and public health experts.  And even though there are encouraging signs the novel coronavirus is plateauing in key places, covid-19 is still killing thousands of Americans each day  —  with the virus  now careening  from urban cities to rural areas.  
  There's a serious break between Trump's vision of the post-peak future — as painted in his daily White House press briefings — and the  grim reality  described by small business owners, restaurateurs, and essential workers on the front lines. Especially as hospitals in some of the cities hit the hardest are still  overwhelmed.  
  “During my shift last week, I had four patients pass away — all from  coronavirus , and my whole last year, I had three patients die,”  a doctor at  New York- Presbyterian Columbia  University Medical Center in Washington Heights, New York told Power Up. By the time he returns to his shift today, he expects three more of his patients to have passed away:  
  Some good news:  New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo (D) told reporters yesterday the state was “past the plateau” with virus hospitalizations and the daily death toll slowly dropping. But he added the state is “still not in a good position.” 
  ‘A fantasy’: Trump last week said states with low or lagging virus cases should consider a phased reopening.  But some experts predict that it won't be long until that prompts some kind of surge in cases, and there is still likely to be a second wave.
  Testing woes continue:  Governors across the country yesterday dismissed the president's claims that states have sufficient equipment for widespread testing, which experts say is critical to reopening the country.
  As the U.S. death toll topped  40,000 ,  Trump insisted during Sunday's White House briefing that “testing is a local thing.” But he announced he might use the Defense Production Act to compel the production of millions more swabs, which are used in the tests, without detailing any specifics. 
  To safely reopen the country,  Harvard researchers estimated that between 500,000 and 700,000 tests should be performed each day, the  New York Times's Keith Collins reports . 
  That number is significantly higher than the current rate:  
  Not just diagnosis:  The administration is now facing problems with dozens of antibody tests aimed at determining who has had the virus and could theoretically safely emerge from their homes.  The antibody tests, however, are proliferating without federal review and many are unreliable. 
  Too soon:  New polling suggests that Americans might not be comfortable with slowly heading out into the world and worry that Trump is moving too quickly: 
  WHITE HOUSE, DEMS NEAR DEAL ON SMALL BUSINESS FUNDING:  “The Trump administration and congressional leaders closed in on an approximately $470 billion deal to renew funding for a small-business loan program that ran out of money under crushing demand during the coronavirus pandemic, aiming to pass the agreement into law within days,”  Erica Werner and Jeff Stein report .
  The deal would also boost money for testing and hospitals by about $100 billion dollars:  Trump himself expressed optimism that a deal could happen as soon as today. “We have some very good negotiations going on right now, and I think you could have a nice answer tomorrow,” he told reporters.
  RESIDENTS PROTEST ORDERS IN FIVE STATES:  “Opposition to covid-19 stay-at-home orders has continued to build from coast to coast, with at least five states the site of protests Sunday,”  ABC News's Meredith Deliso reports .
  The protests appear to be engineered by a network of conservative activists:  “A trio of far-right, pro-gun provocateurs is behind some of the largest Facebook groups calling for anti-quarantine protests around the country, offering the latest illustration that some seemingly organic demonstrations are being engineered by a network of conservative activists,”  Isaac Stanley-Becker and Tony Romm report .
  HEADLINES FROM THE HOT SPOTS:  Power Up's continuing look at how the virus is affecting states and cities throughout the country.
  NEW YORK: 
  “Aggressive” antibody testing will be rolled out start today:  “Cuomo said the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved the state’s antibody test, which is designed to detect whether a person has developed the antibodies to fight covid-19 and indicates they may be immune against the disease, and said the state will conduct ‘thousands’ of tests this week,”  CNBC's Noah Higgins-Dunn reports .
  Cuomo says he's wearing a mask now:  New York is one of handful states that now mandates wearing a a mask in public,   the Times reports . 
  Love in the time of corona:  The governor issued an executive order allowing residents to obtain a marriage license remotely and allowing for clerks to perform a wedding ceremony via video conference.  NY1's Pat Kiernan is already offering  to perform ceremonies for happy couples.
  NEW JERSEY: 
  13 towns have at least 1,000 cases:  “New Jersey’s two largest cities — Newark and Jersey City — continue to have the most coronavirus cases and are the only two municipalities with more than 3,000 confirmed tests, according to numbers reported by local officials,”  NJ Advance Media for NJ.com's Jeff Goldman reports .
  70 people died at a nursing home as body bags piled up:  “After receiving an anonymous tip last Monday, the police found 17 bodies in bags in a small holding room at the Andover facility,”  the Times's Tracey Tully, Brian M. Rosenthal, Matthew Goldstein and Robert Gebeloff report  in an in-depth story about the facility. “The startling discovery illustrated the toll that the coronavirus outbreak has taken on the nation’s nursing homes and other congregate facilities that house society’s most vulnerable, including older people and those with mental and physical disabilities.”
  A sick corrections officer had to get his own test. He was positive:  “On Monday, an officer at Southern State Correctional Facility received an email from a lab in charge of testing New Jersey first responders: He was ‘not eligible’ for a coronavirus test, the message said, partially ‘due to current testing capacity,’”  NJ.com's Blake Nelson and Joe Atmonavage report . “ He decided to get a private test on his own because of how sick he was, his wife Christine McDowell said .” 
  CONNECTICUT: 
  Northeast governors name picks to multistate council focused on reopening:  Govs. Ned Lamont (D-Conn.), Phil Murphy (D-N.J.), Gina Raimondo (D-R.I.), John C. Carney Jr. (D-Del.), Tom Wolf (D-Penn.), Cuomo and Charlie Bake r (R-Mass.) all named a health expert, economic development expert and a respective chief of staff to the partnership,  the Hartford Courant's  Josh Kovner reports . 
  LOUISIANA: 
  State sees smallest daily increase in cases and deaths in three weeks:  “Whether the new data reflects continued slowing of the death toll from the pandemic remains unclear, in part because the reported number of cases and deaths have dropped on every Sunday during the epidemic, often to tick back up in the following days,”  the Times-Picayune | Advocate reports .
  Local paper runs eight-plus pages of obits:  “The Times-Picayune | Advocate printed eight-and-a-half pages of obituaries Sunday, almost double the amount normally published,”  Kyle Whitfield reports . The paper ran four pages of obituaries on the same day last year.
  New Orleans business owners pressure mayor to begin to reopen by May 1:  “The deeply unsustainable cancellation of all public events in our city for 2020 will irreparably damage if not destroy our city's culturally important French Quarter — our tourist industry, and most businesses in general,”  a one-page ad run in the Times-Picayune/Advocate signed by prominent business owners said in their plea to Mayor LaToya Cantrell,  the  Times-Picayune/New Orleans Advocate's Della Hasselle and Bryn Stole report .
  MASSACHUSETTS: 
  Baker says his state is still in the middle of a surge:  “The number of cases has been declining in recent days — the count of new cases was 2,221 on Friday — though state officials caution against reading too much into day-to-day trends, in part because of the variation in the number of tests reported by labs in the state,”  the Boston Globe's Andy Rosen reports . “Speaking before the most recent numbers were released, Baker said the state remains in an acute phase in the crisis.”
  New York is prepared to send 400 ventilators:  "We know how important ventilators are. If their numbers keep going up and if they have to scramble, I said, ‘You were there for us and we’re going to be there for you,’” Cuomo said referencing the surge of cases in Massachusetts during his daily press briefing,  the Boston Herald's Erin Tiernan reports .
  A hospital executive's mission to get PPE sounds straight out of Hollywood:  “They found out about the supplies through ‘an acquaintance of a friend of a team member.’ They paid five times the amount the hospital would normally pay for such a shipment. [ Andrew  Artenstein, chief physician executive at Baystate Health] himself drove to a small Mid-Atlantic airport to review the order when it arrived. Then, he says, the FBI showed up,”  WBUR's Bob Oakes reports .
  WHAT ELSE YOU NEED TO KNOW: 
  Americans at the WHO transmitted real-time info to the Trump administration:  “More than a dozen U.S. researchers, physicians and public health experts, many of them from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, were working full time at the Geneva headquarters of the World Health Organization as the novel coronavirus emerged late last year and transmitted real-time information about its discovery and spread in China to the Trump administration, according to U.S. and international officials,”  Karen DeYoung, Lena H. Sun and  Emily Rauhala report .
  Trump confirmed he really doesn't like Mitt Romney:  The president “ purposefully left the Utah Republican off an economic recovery task force because of his ill will for [Senator] Romney, who voted to convict the president in the impeachment trial,”  the Salt Lake Tribune's  Thomas Burr reports .
  Zuckerberg speaks:  “Since we’re all generating data from apps and devices every day, there will likely be many more opportunities to use the aggregate data to benefit public health. But it’s essential that this is done in a way that protects people’s privacy and respects human rights,” Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg writes in a  Post op-ed this morning  of the social media giant's partnership with researchers on its opt-in survey of users on their symptoms and what might lie ahead.
  DROP THE MIKE:  For two hours, current and former NBA stars, athletes, journalists and Americans desperate for any sports united around the retelling of the 1997-1998 Chicago Bulls and the legacy of Michael Jordan, thanks to ESPN's “The Last Dance.” 
  The first two-parts of the docuseries were summed up in  memes of Bulls GM Jerry Krause , the unearthing of a Larry Bird comparing a 23-year-old Michael Jordan  to “God disguised ” and, yes,  two retirees talking  about their brush with aspects of the story.
  P.S.:  If you want the real reason for the chyrons tweeted around the world,  the Athletic's Richard Deitsch has you covered .
 