with Brent D. Griffiths 
  It's Wednesday. And it's also the National Women's Soccer League  semifinals today  – the first pro sports league to restart games during the  coronavirus  pandemic. Tips, comments, recipes?  Reach out  and  sign up . Thanks for waking up with us.  
  MAKING MOVES: President Trump is sparking legal and political fights left and right  —  literally  —  as he seeks to push through his agenda by force to play to his base amid dropping poll numbers.  He's also making a return to the White House podium in an effort to turn around  the public's stark disapproval of his handling of the coronavirus  as cases spike around the country, including in states such as Florida and Texas where votes will be critical in 2020. 
  “He sees the same numbers everyone else does, ”   a Trump campaign source told Power Up. “When he’s talking about [coronavirus] and projects leadership, numbers go up. Markets rallied at the end of the day, too.” 
  Despite Trump's abrupt turnaround this week in his approach to the coronavirus — from endorsing masks  as a sign of patriotism  to a newly somber admission that the pandemic will “ get worse before it gets better ”  — the president did not offer any new and concrete plans to contain the surging virus, six months after the first case was confirmed in the United States. “We are in the process of developing a strategy that’s going to be very, very powerful,” Trump teased vaguely on Tuesday from  the briefing room , without revealing any specifics. 
  Instead, Trump this week has: 
  Red meat: It seemed clear the base was on his mind as Trump yesterday  signed  the census memorandum  and insisted  he was “following through on that commitment” to determine citizenship status of the U.S. population. 
  The move comes after Trump has “repeatedly tried to change the way the decennial census is carried out and how its data is used,”  Tara notes, though legal and census experts stressed this plan is neither legal nor practicable.  
  Don't forget about “law & order”:  Trump, who is also trailing Joe Biden  in some polls  on crime and safety despite his tough rhetoric, vowed to send federal law enforcement agents to more major cities  led by Democrats  even as leaders in Portland, Ore., and Washington insist the federal crackdown is only escalating civil strife. “I’m going to do something — that, I can tell you,” Trump told  reporters on Monday . “Because we’re not going to let New York and Chicago and Philadelphia and Detroit and Baltimore and all of these — Oakland is a mess. We’re not going to let this happen in our country. All run by liberal Democrats.” 
  The reliance on the authority and assets of the Department of Homeland Security to spearhead the federal response against anti-racism protesters Trump has decried as “anarchists” has raised questions about abuse of power,  our colleagues  Nick Miroff and Matt Zapotosky report : “Images of militarized Border Patrol agents clubbing protesters and stuffing them into unmarked vehicles have alarmed civil liberties advocates and administration critics, and the displays of government power echo tactics long associated with authoritarian rule,” they write. “Legal analysts say that while the department has broad authority to enforce federal laws, officers’ actions — especially in Portland, Ore. — seemed to be pushing the boundaries and pulling DHS into a domestic policing role.”
  DHS's response in Portland is not sitting well with many of the department's employees, either,  according to  Buzzfeed's Hamed Aleaziz:  “C onversations with 17 DHS employees, all of whom requested anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly on the matter, reveal that many at the agency disagree with the show of force. Some called for an investigation, while others said they feared the long-term consequences for the agency’s reputation.”  
  Trump's demand for a payroll tax cut stirred up intraparty controversy on Capitol Hill  as the White House and Senate Republicans “stumbled to formulate a unified coronavirus budget plan, lacking agreement on policy goals, spending parameters and even deadlines,” according to our colleagues  Erica Werner, Jeff Stein and Seung Min Kim. 
  “In an effort to bridge differences, [Treasury Secretary Steven] Mnuchin, White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows and White House National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow met with Senate Republicans over lunch. But that led to little progress, as Republicans made clear to Mnuchin and Meadows that they were not supportive of Trump’s insistence on a payroll tax cut or curbed funding for coronavirus tests and the CDC,” they write.  
  Laying down one last more marker for Confederate symbols:  Trump “ formally threatened to veto a $740 billion military spending bill Tuesday hours before the House passed the legislation by a veto-proof majority, heralding a potential showdown   between the White House and Congress over a bipartisan effort to rename several Army posts that commemorate Confederate generals,” our  colleague Karoun Demirjian  reports.  
  The White House  in a statement  called out several provisions of the House bill that the president took issue with, namely the directive to the Pentagon to rename the 10 bases within a year.  White House advisers argued that the order was “part of a sustained effort to erase from the history of the Nation those who do not meet an ever-shifting standard of conduct” and an attempt “to rewrite history and to displace the enduring legacy of the American Revolution with an ever-shifting standard of conduct, ”  Karoun reports.  
  THE NEXT PHASE IS A MESS:  The party infighting means "the whole process now appears likely to spill into August, something the White House and congressional Democrats had hoped to avoid, because it would mean more than 20 million Americans would lose emergency unemployment benefits when they expire at the end of this month,”  Erica, Jeff and Seung Min report . 
  Where we’re at … for now:  Remember once Republicans agree on a package they’ll then have to negotiate with House Democrats.  
  Other Republicans are mortified over spending so much money.  “ What in the hell are we doing?” Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.), who according to multiple officials was incensed at the push to boost spending levels, asked his colleagues at the lunch with the administration negotiators.  
  HOUSE CONSERVATIVES BLAST LIZ CHENEY:  “Rep. Liz Cheney (R-Wyo.) came under fire from   the far-right flank of the House Republican caucus, who accused her of disloyalty to [Trump] and later called on her to step down from her leadership post,”  Paul Kane and Rachael Bade report .
  Among their complaints was that Cheney had been supportive of Anthony Fauci, the country's leading infectious disease expert:  “The unusually sharp internal clash — which took place at the first in-person meeting of the GOP conference in four months due to the pandemic — highlights the transformation of the House Republican Conference in the age of Trump: Few House Republicans are comfortable challenging a man popular with their base, and those who do are attacked by their colleagues,” our colleagues write.
  AOC SAYS GOP LAWMAKER ACCOSTED HER:  “In a confrontation overheard by a reporter Monday outside the Capitol, Rep. Ted Yoho (R-Fla.) called Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) ‘disgusting’ and told her ‘you are out of your freaking mind’ for describing poverty as a root cause of crime, prompting the congresswoman to later condemn what she described as Yoho’s ‘virulent harassment’ of her,”  Felicia Sonmez reports .
  AOC fired back at Yoho on Twitter:  “Believe it or not, I usually get along fine w/ my GOP colleagues. We know how to check our legislative sparring at the committee door,”  Ocasio-Cortez wrote , adding she had never spoken to the Republican before. “ But hey, “b*tches” get stuff done.”  
  OHIO SPEAKER CHARGED AMID $60 MILLION BRIBERY PROBE:  “Ohio House Speaker Larry Householder’s political operation accepted more than $60 million in bribe money from FirstEnergy Corp. to secure the company a $1.3 billion public bailout, according to a federal complaint,”  Cleveland.com's Jeremy Pelzer reports .
  Gov. Mike DeWine (R) called on Householder to resign:  
  There are also redistricting implications:  “The scope of the accusations threatens to unfurl the GOP’s tight hold on Ohio’s governing body, which is set to draw new congressional maps in 2021 that will dictate Ohio’s representation in Washington for a decade, a variable that’s put winning at least some seats on Democrats’ national radar,”  the Associated Press's Julie Carr Smyth reports .
 