with Brent D. Griffiths
  Want more insight into how the Trump administration is handling the  coronavirus  pandemic?  Sign up for this newsletter here. 
  ALL THE PRESIDENT'S ENEMIES: In the midst of a pandemic that has killed over 23,000 Americans, President Trump proved, once again, that his image remains one of his paramount concerns, lashing out at those who he views as failing to respect his record  —  and his power.  
  In his view, he's fighting more than just the “hidden enemy, ”  his name for the novel coronavirus ravaging the nation.  Trump's also battling the media, which he falsely claimed missed opportunities to save lives; Democratic governors who have  banded togethe r to explore lifting restrictions; and his own top public health adviser, who used the start of yesterday's briefing to clarify an earlier comment that more lives could have been saved if the Trump administration had acted earlier. 
  Yesterday's  two hour and 24-minute coronavirus task force briefing,  a daily ritual for Trump that has become a substitute for his campaign rallies, featured a propaganda-style video that spliced together praise of Trump's handling of the crisis from some of his  favorite frenemies — Democratic governors and oft-mocked reporters — included clips of others downplaying the threat. 
  The video was a prologue for a litany of grievances issued by the president in defense of the federal response to the virus: “Everything we did was right,” Trump maintained.  
  Trump's targets at yesterday's live-stream:  The media, governors, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Anthony S. Fauci, Joe Biden, China, and more. 
  The Media:  Trump appeared to be seething over a  New York Times article  published over the weekend identifying key dates between early January and mid-March in which he dismissed warnings about the coronavirus.  Though he often uses reporters as a foil, the president's sparring with them intensified on Monday. 
  The most heated exchange came after CBS News's Paula Reid pressed Trump on a notable gap in the campaign-style video that skipped over the administration's actions during most of February and early March — the chunk of time public health experts say was squandered by the administration for not promoting social distancing or providing enough virus testing.
  The Governors:  After a handful of governors on the East and West coasts united to decide together how to lift pandemic restrictions,  Trump declared he alone would decide how and when to reopen the country.  
  The threat of a blanket edict from the president garnered immediate criticism from governors, some lawmakers and constitutional scholars alike: 
  The No. 3 House Republican, Rep. Liz Cheney (Wyo.) 
  Fauci:  Public tension between Trump and one of his top advisers peaked   after the president amplified a tweet calling to  #FireFauci. At last night's briefing, Fauci took to the lectern to clarify comments he made the previous morning that lives could have been saved if the country had shut down sooner. 
  Fauci would be hard to actually fire as he's a civil servant and not a political appointee. But that doesn't mean he can't endure diminished influence and standing with the president.
  Biden: Trump also took the opportunity to lash out at his presumptive Democratic opponent, former vice president Biden,  who came out in support of Trump's ban of travel from China, but called his “ scapegoating others at a time when the virus was emerging from China " not a time for “Trump's record of hysterical xenophobia and fear-mongering to lead the way instead of science.” 
  THOUSANDS OF CITIES ARE FACING BUDGET SHORTFALLS:  “More than 2,100 U.S. cities are anticipating major budget shortfalls this year and many are planning to slash programs and cut staff in response, according to a new survey of local officials, illustrating the widespread financial havoc threatened by the coronavirus pandemic,” Tony Romm  reports  this morning. 
  The bleak outlook is leading some city leaders to push for more federal support:  “The findings inject new urgency into a simmering congressional debate over Washington’s role in safeguarding cash-starved cities and states from financial ruin. Local governments generally cannot run deficits, unlike the nation’s capital, leaving them no choice but to slash their spending or raise taxes — absent more federal support,” our colleague writes. 
  What about current aid?  Congress allocated $150 billion in aid for states and large cities as part of the historic coronavirus stimulus package, but that money has restrictions on how it can be spent, Mainly, the funds can only be used to cover covid-19 response but not channeled to budget shortfalls from the economic slowdown sparked by the disease.
  BERNIE ENDORSES BIDEN:  “Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) pledged to vigorously support former vice president Joe Biden’s campaign to defeat [Trump], as the two men presented a unified front in a Democratic Party long riven by ideological divisions,”  Sean Sullivan, Felicia Sonmez and Michael Scherer report .
  The news was kept under wraps until Biden introduced the senator during a live-stream event yesterday afternoon:  “It came five days after Sanders bowed out of the race — and much sooner than 2016, when it took Sanders weeks to get behind Hillary Clinton,” our colleagues write.
  The endorsement comes at a crucial time:  “Even after Sanders ended his bid and praised Biden last week, many of his supporters, including some who had been on his campaign’s payroll, continued to condemn Biden publicly,” our colleagues write. “The hope among allies of the two men is that Monday’s endorsement will quell those critics and allow Biden to forge stronger ties to the party’s left flank.”
  AMASH STILL EYEING THIRD-PARTY RUN:  “Rep. Justin Amash (I-Mich.) said that he’s considering a White House run against [Trump], a move that could pose a challenge to the president’s campaign for a second term. Amash, who left the Republican Party last year and is seeking reelection to his Grand Rapids-area House seat as an independent, made the comment in a tweet responding to a statement by Trump that as president, his ‘authority is total,’”  Felicia Sonmez and David Weigel report .
  LIBERAL CHALLENGER OUSTS WISCONSIN SUPREME COURT JUDGE:  “Jill Karofsky beat Daniel Kelly, whom then-Gov. Scott Walker (R) appointed to the state’s high court in 2016. Trump endorsed Kelly and on Election Day urged Wisconsin voters ‘to get out and vote NOW’ for the justice,”  Amy Gardner and David Weigel report  of a race that like the state's presidential primary featured in-person voting during a pandemic.
  Such an ouster is extremely rare for the court:  “Karofsky’s victory marked the first time in a dozen years that a Supreme Court challenger beat an incumbent — and just the second time in more than half a century. Her win over Justice Daniel Kelly will shift conservative control of the court from 5-2 to 4-3,”  the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel's Patrick Marley reports .
  PHASE 4 REMAINS STALLED:  “House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer said that they won’t agree to the Trump administration’s insistence on more money for small business loans unless their demands are met for additional funding for hospitals, state and local governments and food stamp recipients. But Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said the Democrats’ demands should wait for another day, while the small business program needs more money now,”  Erica Werner reports .
  Further complicating matters, the House is not expected to return to Washington before May:  House Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer (D-Md.) said the delay could be “possibly longer if health experts recommend against bringing more than 400 lawmakers back to Washington during the coronavirus pandemic,”  Paul Kane reports .
  WHAT ELSE YOU NEED TO KNOW: 
  USS Theodore Roosevelt sailor dies from virus:  “A U.S. sailor assigned to an aircraft carrier crippled by the novel coronavirus died, the Navy said, marking the first death of an active-duty service member caused by the virus as confirmed cases among the crew climbed to at least 585,”  Dan Lamothe reports .
  South Dakota governor's resisted a stay-at-home order. Now, the state has an outbreak that threatens the U.S. food supply:  “South Dakota is home to one of the largest single coronavirus clusters anywhere in the United States, with more than 300 workers at a giant ­pork-processing plant falling ill. With the case numbers continuing to spike, the company was forced to announce the indefinite closure of the facility Sunday, threatening the U.S. food supply,”  Griff Witte reports  of Gov. Kristi L. Noem (R) who recently said such orders reflected a “herd mentality.” 
  Florida's top health official was removed from a press conference after saying social distancing would need to be extended:  “Floridians will be keeping their distance and wearing face masks for up to a year until a covid-19 vaccine exists, Florida Surgeon General Scott Rivkees said Monday before being whisked away by the governor’s spokeswoman,”  the Miami Herald's Lawrence Mower reports . The Herald reports that Rivkees's spokesman said he left to attend a meeting with  Adrian Lukis, deputy chief of staff for Gov. Ron DeSantis (R). 
 