with Brent D. Griffiths
  Happy Friday, friends and  Ramadan Mubarak! Have a great weekend and do not ingest any bleach or disinfectant. See you on Monday  ☀️   
  MOMENTS IN THE SUN:  President Trump yesterday touted the bizarre idea disinfectant could somehow be applied to or ingested by humans to rid them of the novel  coronavirus . Or that ultraviolet light or sunlight could be “brought inside the body” to help people with covid-19. 
  The president's unsubstantiated — and potentially dangerous — amateur musings came after William N. Bryan, the acting undersecretary for science and technology at the Homeland Security Department, announced an “emerging result” from a lab study showing direct sunlight helps kill the coronavirus. 
  Nope, nope, nope:  On Friday, the maker of Lysol and Dettol urged people not to ingest their product.
  FDA Commissioner Stephen Hahn sought to frame Trump's medically risky musings as natural curiosity.  “This is a conversation that occurs every day in America between a patient and a doctor. I've been in that position. I'm sure Dr. Gupta has as well,” Hahn said on CNN following the briefing, answering Sanjay Gupta, the network's chief medical correspondent. 
  Do not try this at home:  A researcher as well as a  medical and radiation oncologist , Hahn stressed no one should take matters into their own hands without consulting their doctor. And, stating the obvious, Hahn confirmed,  “I certainly wouldn't recommend the internal ingestion of a disinfectant.” 
  Just a ‘suggestion’: Trump has repeatedly advanced unproven medical remedies from the White House podium as the coronavirus pandemic becomes the central challenge of his presidency  —  and as nearly 50,000 Americans have died of the disease. 
  His latest medical “suggestion,” as Trump called it, comes in the wake of a  fresh Veterans Affairs study  on his previously favorite remedy — hydroxychloroquine — found the anti-malarial drug to have no benefit in treating covid-19. The study instead found the drug was linked to  higher death rates  for hospitalized VA patients with the virus. Other clinical trials to gauge the drug's impact are ongoing. 
  From an infectious disease expert: 
  The briefing as a  traveling medicine show   showcased Trump's desire to find a cure-all for a disease has caused confusion and turmoil within his administration's health agencies: 
  The behind-the-scenes drama has seeped into public view as well. The daily task force briefings have become soap operas where Trump's grievances and frustrations with media coverage and his own staff play out in real time.  
  Fit for a 'king':  Trump has chafed over repeated questioning whether the country is testing enough people. He has proclaimed the U.S. the “king of testing” despite  governors  and local officials  still scrambling  to get  supplies . The latest person to trigger the president's ire was Anthony S. Fauci, the nation's top infectious disease expert, who questioned the country's capabilities:
  GOVS BLINDSIDE THEIR OWN STAFFS WITH HASTY REOPENINGS:  “Governors preparing to roll back restrictions put in place to slow the spread of the novel coronavirus are in some cases acting without the input and against the wishes of their own medical and emergency management staff,”  Isaac Stanley-Becker and Rachel Weiner report . 
  Just look at Georgia:  “Gov. Brian Kemp (R) announced he would let tattoo parlors, hair salons and bowling alleys reopen without receiving guidance from the panel of doctors tapped to advise him and without giving advance notice to regional health departments responsible for carrying out his orders, according to physicians and state officials,” our colleagues write.
  Trump admonished Kemp again for not following the White House guidelines:  “ I said ‘you do what you think is best’ but if you ask me ‘am I happy about it’, I'm not happy about it and I'm not happy about Brian Kemp,” the president said during yesterday's briefing. 
  TIDAL WAVE OF JOB LOSSES CONTINUE:  “More than 4.4 million Americans filed for unemployment benefits last week, according to the Labor Department,”  Rachel Siegel and Andrew Van Dam report . “It’s the fifth straight week that job losses were measured in the millions."
  HOUSE PASSES $484 BILLION VIRUS BILL:  “The legislation, approved 388-5, would restart a small-business loan program that was swamped by demand and allocate more money for health-care providers and virus testing. The vote was historic, as many lawmakers wore masks on the House floor, some even speaking through face coverings as they delivered impassioned remarks,”  Erica Werner reports .
  The people's House amid a pandemic:  “There were many, many masks, and in some cases gloves. Sanitizing hand wipes were placed on every row. Signs on the chairs forbid lawmakers from sitting any closer than three seats apart,”  Paul Kane reports . “Most lawmakers wore masks inside the chamber, although quite a few Republicans declined to wear them at all, a point of tension for some Democrats who want everyone to don some face covering.”
  THE NEXT BIG DEBATE IS POISED TO BE A BATTLE:  “ … T he focus is quickly shifting to an escalating battle over whether Congress will provide hundreds of billions of dollars to states staggering under the costs of [ the outbreak],”  the New York Times's Carl Hulse reports .
  Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) suggested some states consider bankruptcy:  He said he isn't in any mood for legislation with lots of 0s to help states he claims mismanaged their funds before the crisis. That has not gone over well, even with some fellow Republicans,  John Wagner reports .
  The president has yet to take a concrete position:  “During a White House briefing, Trump said aid to the states is ‘certainly the next thing we’re going to be discussing”’ but also said ‘a lot of people’ are sympathetic to what McConnell is saying …,” our colleague writes.
  BIDEN LOOKS STRONG WITH OLDER VOTERS:  “A string of recent polls shows troubling signs for [Trump] with older voters, a group central to his reelection effort that appears to be drifting away from him amid a pandemic that has been especially deadly for senior citizens,”  Toluse Olorunnipa reports .
  Warning signs in Florida:  “ … A Quinnipiac University poll released Wednesday showed Biden leading Trump by a 10-point margin, 52 to 42, among voters 65 and older — the latest poll showing Trump losing ground with seniors in key battlegrounds,” our colleague writes. “In 2016, exit polls showed Trump winning seniors in Florida by 17 points over Hillary Clinton, a crucial margin in a state where older voters make up a large percentage of the voting population.”
  WHAT ELSE YOU NEED TO KNOW: 
  Trump administration considers strong arming the Post Office:  “The Treasury Department is considering taking unprecedented control over key operations of the U.S. Postal Service by imposing tough terms on an emergency coronavirus loan from Congress, which would fulfill [Trump’s] longtime goal of changing how the service does business, according to two people familiar with the matter,”  Jacob Bogage and Lisa Rein report .
  The anthem for our moment:  “ … ‘ Rainbow’ has lived many lives. It wound up as an album favorite. It became an anthem for the LGBTQ community. It surged again when [ Kacey]  Musgraves performed it during  the 2019 Grammy Awards , where she won four trophies, including album of the year. And now, in a terrifying time during the  covid-19 pandemic , it has evolved into the comforting song that many people are turning to,”  Emily Yahr  writes  of the song on Musgraves's first album that keeps reminding us, “It all be alright.”
  “ Nothing about the June/July issue of Vogue is normal ” :  “And so, the most intriguing images in the newest edition of this iconic publication are not of models, actors or spit-shined politicians. They are four pictures of health professionals in scrubs,” Robin Givhan  writes . “Instead, the four women — part of a medical portfolio — have been elevated. Everyone else in the magazine, by comparison, has been diminished.” 
 