with Brent D. Griffiths
  Good morning and welcome back. Tips, comments, recipes.  Reach out  and  sign up . Thanks for waking up with us. 
  THE  CORONAVIRUS  CLIMATE ARGUMENT: If the Trump administration is serious about containing the novel coronavirus in the United States, it should consider ways to cut down on air pollution.  
  That's the argument from researchers behind  a new nationwide study  that found coronavirus patients living in counties with high levels of air pollution were more likely to die than those living in less-polluted areas before the pandemic. 
  Harvard University's T.H. Chan School of Public Health analyzed data from more than 3,000 counties with confirmed coronavirus deaths around the country. They found a statistical link between long-term exposure to PM 2.5 —  dangerous air particles so small they can enter the bloodstream  — and higher death rates from the disease caused by coronavirus. 
  Dominici says the study offers big lessons for the Trump administration,  which has been aggressively moving forward with  easing restrictions on air pollution  even during the pandemic.  Dominici says coronavirus makes environmental rollbacks an even more “unwise and irresponsible decision. ”    
  The study found the impact of tiny pollution was huge: Take Manhattan, for example.  If the city had lowered its average particulate matter level — by just one single unit per cubic meter — over the last two decades, the study found, there would have been “248 fewer covid-19 deaths among a total of 1905 deaths up to April 04, 2020.” 
  The government's view: The Environmental Protection Agency says it is  “ committed to protecting public health by improving air quality and reducing air pollution, ”   an agency spokesperson told Power Up. Covid-19 “is a new and evolving situation and scientists are working hard to understand what variables are linked to transmission and vulnerability.” 
  Yet climate experts have slammed recent steps the Trump administration has taken that could reduce air quality,  as my colleague Dino Grandoni has reported . At the end of March, the EPA announced a relaxation of environmental rules,  telling  petrochemical plants, power companies and other major industries that “they could determine on their own if they can report their operations’ air and water pollution levels during the virus outbreak.” 
  Social distancing is having an impact:  Pollution  has declined in major cities  such as Los Angeles, Seattle, and New York, as social distancing forces people to stay at home and everyday life comes to a standstill. It's happening globally, too: Italy and China  have also seen a decline  in air pollution and lowered greenhouse gas emissions amid efforts to stop the spread of the disease. This could, in theory, help reduce stress on people's lungs  —  but the air quality is likely to get worse again as restrictions are lifted and the economy resumes, unless other steps are taken.  
  The researchers want more data:  More research is needed understand the impacts on a global scale, including whether covid-19 was exacerbated in Wuhan, an industrial city in China, due to air pollution.
  TRUMP POISED TO RENEW PUSH TO REOPEN THE ECONOMY:  “[The president] is preparing to announce as soon as this week a second, smaller coronavirus task force aimed specifically at combating the economic ramifications of the virus and focused on reopening the nation’s economy, according to four people familiar with the plans,”  Ashley Parker, Josh Dawsey and Yasmeen Abutaleb scoop .
  The goal is to open as much of the country as possible by April 30:  The larger coronavirus task force's strict social distancing guidelines are set to expire at the end of the month. Trump had pushed to reopen the country by Easter (this weekend), but backed down after strong urging from health officials.
  PHASE 4 TALKS STALL:  Later this morning, “Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is moving forward to bring the $250 billion small-business increase up on the floor on Thursday without Democrats’ priorities included, essentially daring Democrats to object,”  Erica Werner, Mike DeBonis and Seung Min Kim report . Beyond that it's unclear what will happen to a plan that White House hoped would be on Trump's desk by the weekend.
  House Speaker Nancy Pelosi wants to the GOP to come to table and is prepared to wait them out:  “I have said very clearly: What they are proposing will not get unanimous consent in the House. There is no reason they cannot come to the table and see the value of what we are offering,” Pelosi  told Robert Costa . She and Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer want to change the GOP proposal and add an additional $250 billion for hospitals and states.
  How we got here:  “Trump and [Mnuchin] are seeking the extra small-business money after banks fielded more than 400,000 loan requests in less than a week for firms trying to navigate the economic fallout from the coronavirus pandemic,” our colleagues write.
  THE GENERAL ELECTION BEGINS:  “ With  the withdrawal  of Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) from the Democratic race, [former vice president Joe Biden] and [Trump] have no remaining opponents but each other,”  the New York Times's  Alexander Burns and Jonathan Martin report . “ Yet the actual activities of the campaign remain largely on hold, frozen by the coronavirus outbreak that has brought most other aspects of the country’s public life to a standstill.” 
  Trump and his campaign offered a preview of two-pronged approach:  Biden pulled off his comeback by being the choice of the Democratic Party establishment a group that disrespected Sanders's populist movement and also by “embrac[ing]  the far-left policies of the anti-establishment Sanders and is indistinguishable from the self-described socialist,”  Michael Scherer and Toluse Olorunnipa report . 
  WHAT'S NEXT FOR BERNIE AND HIS MOVEMENT?:  In the immediate future, Sanders has pledged to support Biden. "[But the senator added that] he will remain on primary ballots in an effort to collect enough delegates to influence the party’s platform in negotiations this summer,”  Sean Sullivan, Matt Viser and David Weigel report .
  Biden and his team immediately started rolling out appeals:  The former veep released a lengthy statement  praising Sanders and his campaign. His campaign also “campaign expects to announce several policy agreements with Sanders starting [today], on topics including health care and student loans,” our colleagues report.
  As for the long term, all eyes are on AOC:  “Among some activists, Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.), a rising star who helped rescue Sanders’s candidacy with an endorsement after his heart attack, is seen as a potential successor,” our colleagues write. “But some hard-liners are less sold on Ocasio-Cortez and view her as too conciliatory.”
  WHAT ELSE YOU NEED TO KNOW: 
  Meadows is off to a rocky start:  “Trump’s new chief of staff, Mark Meadows, has escalated tensions in the White House with a swift series of staff changes that have drawn complaints from some in the West Wing about his management style, according to people familiar with the matter,”  Bloomberg's Jennifer Jacobs, Jordan Fabian, and Josh Wingrove report .
  Trump faces bipartisan scrutiny for ousting Intel IG:  “Sen. Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa), who for decades has championed congressional oversight, is drafting a letter to the president seeking that explanation about Michael Atkinson. Grassley’s effort has been endorsed by Sens. Mitt Romney (R-Utah), Susan Collins (R-Maine) and Democrats in the chamber,”  Seung Min Kim, Josh Dawsey, Tom Hamburger and Mike DeBonis report . Atkinson, as the intelligence community's inspector general, defied the administration in alerting Congress to a  whistleblower complaint  about Trump's actions regarding Ukraine that later help spark the president's impeachment.
  Former acting Navy secretary's travel to Guam cost taxpayers over $240k:  “For [acting Navy secretary Thomas Modly], the visit resulted in his resignation, after he created an uproar by insulting the former commanding officer of the USS Theodore Roosevelt, who had raised concerns about how the Navy was handling a coronavirus outbreak on the warship,”  Dan Lamothe reports .
  New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, mayor Bill de Blasio face criticism for acting too slowly:  “From the earliest days of the crisis, state and city officials were also hampered by a chaotic and often dysfunctional federal response, including significant problems with the expansion of coronavirus testing, which made it far harder to gauge the scope of the outbreak,”  the Times's J. David Goodman reports .
  Linda Tripp dead at 70:  “Linda Tripp, a key figure in the presidential sex scandal that nearly brought down the administration of Bill Clinton over his affair with onetime White House intern Monica S. Lewinsky, leading to the president’s impeachment in 1998, died April 8,”  Matt Schudel reports .
  Everything you wanted to know about DIY face masks:  Our colleagues Bonnie Berkowitz and Aaron Steckelberg  have you covered. Yes, even if you can't sew. 
 