with Brent D. Griffiths
  Happy  Monday ,  Tuesday ,  Wednesday ,  Thursday , Friday. Tips, comments, recipes? Reach out and  sign up . Thanks for waking up with us.  
  Deaths in Wuhan were almost 50 percent worse than reported:  “The death toll at the epicenter of the pandemic now stands at 3,869,”   Anna Fifield reports .
  ROLLING REENTRY:  President Trump started the week declaring he had “total authority" to unilaterally lift state restrictions to curb the novel  coronavirus .  By Thursday, Trump pivoted hard by handing the governors the responsibility – and with it, any blame – for reopening their states, albeit with federal guidelines for how to do so. 
  With the economic cost of the shutdown  deepening ,  Trump announced a three-phase plan outlining how the states can reopen,  but  made clear  in a phone call with governors they would “call your own shots.”
  The timeline : Instead of fixed dates on which states can reopen, Trump provided a  how-to guide  describing criteria allowing states to begin getting back to normal as virus cases decrease. He said 29 states should “ be able to open relatively soon ”   —  meaning sooner than  May 1, the target date Trump initially floated . 
  The politics:  The president sent a clear signal that states are responsible for determining when they get back to businesses.  That means their governors are likely to shoulder the blame if something goes wrong and infections and deaths increase as social distancing rules are relaxed. 
  The guidance: Trump along with his top health advisers and  Vice President Pence yesterday publicly  outlined their three-phase plan to restart the economy. 
  But first:  The guidelines suggest that states  “ should first see a decrease in confirmed coronavirus cases over a 14-day period,” per J osh Dawsey, Seung Min Kim, Felicia Sonmez and Colby Itkowitz . “That suggestion is in line with the recommendations of public health experts, who have said that due to the virus’s 14-day incubation period, states should refrain from moving toward relaxing their restrictions until they have seen a sustained reduction in new cases for at least that long.”
  Phase One (for states whose virus cases have decreased for 14 days): 
  Phase Two (for states that see no rebound in the disease): 
  Phase Three   (again, for states without rebound cases) : 
  Yet, no ‘new normal’:  Trump rejected the idea of a “new normal” during his news conference. 
  Testing, testing, 1, 2, 3:  But there's widespread concern the guidelines don't account for the lack of a widespread strategy to test Americans, both to see if they have the virus and whether they're now immune to it.
  Governors generally welcomed the president's hands-off approach to reopen. But they still appealed to Trump for more testing and necessary equipment to get their states primed for phase one. 
  Earlier this week, Anthony S. Fauci, Trump's top infectious disease expert, said that not enough testing and tracing procedures were in place to start to reopen the country. 
  GLITCHES DELAY STIMULUS CHECKS:  “Many Americans woke up Wednesday expecting to find a payment of $1,200 or more from the U.S. government in their bank account, but instead they realized nothing had arrived yet — or the wrong amount was deposited. Parents of young children complained they did not receive the promised $500 check for their dependent children,”  Heather Long and Michelle Singletary report .
  Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin instructed the IRS to get payments out to Americans ASAP:  But numerous glitches are delaying that effort and causing confusion. “Several million people who filed their taxes via H&R Block, TurboTax and other services were unable to get their payments because the IRS did not have their direct deposit information on file, according to the Treasury, companies and experts,” our colleagues write.
  A DECADE OF JOB GAINS HAS BEEN WIPED OUT:  “More than 22 million Americans have filed for unemployment aid since [Trump] declared a national emergency, a staggering loss of jobs that has wiped out a decade of employment gains and pushed families to line up at food banks as they await government help,”  Heather Long reports .
  The sheer scale of the economic devastation is evident in a state like Michigan:  “Roughly a quarter of [the state's] eligible workforce is now trying to obtain unemployment aid, according to local officials …,”  Tony Romm reports .
  THE FULL STORY OF THE USS THEODORE ROOSEVELT'S OUTBREAK:  “Capt. Brett Crozier opened his March 30 message to three admirals by saying he would ‘gladly’ follow them ‘into battle whenever needed.’ But the skipper of the USS Theodore Roosevelt shifted to his concern that the Navy was not doing enough to stop the spread of the virus, and acknowledged being a part of the sluggish response,”  Dan Lamothe and Shawn Boburg report .
  The email, copied to a handful of Navy captains, is at the heart of a crisis:  After a four-page memo attached to the message leaked to the media, "acting Navy secretary Thomas Modly relieved Crozier of his command and then Modly resigned himself amid an outcry after audio emerged of him insulting the captain in an address to Roosevelt sailors, our colleagues write.
  KNIVES ARE ALREADY OUT FOR MEADOWS:  “A dministration officials say [White House chief of staff Mark Meadows] has been overwhelmed at times by a permanent culture at the White House that revolves around the president’s moods, his desire to present a veneer of strength and his need for a sense of control,”  the New York Times's  Maggie Haberman reports .
  Meadows has been on the job for less than three weeks:  “I t has not helped him with his White House colleagues that the former North Carolina congressman, who has a reputation for showing his emotions, cried while meeting with members of the White House staff on at least two occasions,” the Times reports. “ One instance was in the presence of a young West Wing aide; another time was with the president’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner.”
  Not even a month in, he's also shaking a lot up:  “In that time, [Meadows] has shaken up the communications office, angering supporters of the press secretary he chose to replace. He has tried to put in place other speedy changes, hoping to succeed where his three predecessors failed. He has hunted aggressively for leaks.”
  A ROGER STONE PROTEGE IS NOW THE FACE OF THE VIRUS RESPONSE:  “ Michael R. Caputo, a longtime Trump loyalist who made a cameo in the Mueller report, has been installed as the public face of the Health and Human Services Department in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic,”  the Times's Maggie Haberman, Annie Karni and Kenneth P. Vogel report .
  Caputo has no background in health care:  “ But what he lacks in expertise, he makes up in loyalty to [Trump], a critical attribute as a superstitious commander in chief has sought to recreate some of the team he assembled four years ago for his stunning upset election victory — and as he has expressed renewed distrust of [Health and Human Services Secretary Alex] Azar,” the Times reports. 
  WHAT ELSE YOU NEED TO KNOW: 
  A federal judge denied Roger Stone's appeal for a new trial:  “U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson ruled that while the juror might have expressed strong opinions about Trump on social media, she did not lie in answering a pretrial questionnaire probing potential jurors for bias or have a prejudicial view of Stone,”  Spencer S. Hsu and Matt Zapotosky report  of Jackson's blistering opinion that is the latest set back for Trump's longtime confidant.
  Coronavirus is quickly becoming the leading cause of death in the U.S.:  “You can grasp the scale when you compare a single week’s pandemic deaths with how many people die of major causes in a typical week,”  Dan Keating and Chiqui Esteban report .
 