with Brent D. Griffiths 
  Good Monday morning. Please join us tomorrow for a conversation with David Hogg, co-founder of March For Our Lives, and executive director Alexis Confer at 12 p.m. EST about America's youngest voters.  Sign up to register for the live stream here . See you tomorrow.  
  GOING IT ALONE:  President Trump's unilateral action on unemployment benefits, evictions and payroll taxes was met with fanfare from the supporters  who gathered  in the ballroom of his Bedminster, New Jersey golf club. In Washington, the moves were greeted with far less enthusiasm, even as lawmakers failed to deliver an additional stimulus package extending critical lifelines to the millions of Americans who are currently unemployed and at risk of  losing their homes . 
  Democrats said the executive actions would not actually deliver relief to the Americans most in need — and accused the president of misrepresenting what the orders actually do. They also didn't sit well with some Republicans who questioned the legality and effectiveness of Trump's attempt to circumvent Congress. 
  Read the fine print:  House Speaker Nancy Pelosi  said Sunday  the orders are a mere “illusion.” Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer called them a  “ big show but they don’t do anything. ”   
  They questioned whether the unemployed will actually receive the $400-per-week in enhanced benefits that Trump promised, meant to replace the expired $600-per-week benefit that recently lapsed. Trump's orders, Pelosi said,  “ don't give the money in enhanced benefits, but puts a complicated formula there which will take a while, if at all, to accomplish to put money in the pockets of the American people. ”   
  States were also reluctant to commit:  Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine (R), for instance, said it's unclear whether his state could afford it: “The answer is, I don’t know yet.” 
  Democrats also pounced on the discrepancies between the text of the order and Trump's promises on evictions  —   “ the act that I’m signing will solve that problem, largely  —  hopefully, completely,” the president said Saturday .  It does not extend the federal eviction moratorium that expired last month nor provide the billions in rental assistance that Democrats and housing experts have said is crucial for people who are already behind on their rent. 
  Trump's move for a payroll tax delay – an idea that got little support on Capitol Hill including from Republicans who questioned the impact on Social Security and the deficit – also drew outcry.  Sen. Ben Sasse (R-Neb.) called Trump's strategy “unconstitutional slop” and insisted the president doesn't have the power to “unilaterally rewrite the payroll tax law.”  
  Businesses are also unlikely to alter worker paychecks, despite Trump's order that would allow employees making less than $104,000 to delay until January payment of a payroll tax that funds Social Security and Medicare,  per Tony, Jeff and Erica.  They would likely wait until there's a guarantee the taxes would actually be absolved  —  which Trump promised to do only if he is reelected.  
  By embracing the payroll tax cut, which was not even a part of negotiations this past week, “Trump would be embarking on a fraught process that could have catastrophic fiscal effects on programs including Social Security, which watchdogs recently have warned is in dire financial straits, expected next year to have costs that exceed its total incomes,”  Tony reports.  
  One possible outcome:  The actions are so unpalatable to lawmakers it adds new fire to negotiations. “The basic notion here is the president is rejecting Congress’s power of the purse,” David Super, a constitutional law expert at Georgetown Law,  told our colleague Heather Long . “That is something nobody who cares about separation of powers can let slide, even if they like what the money is being spent on.”
  Looking ahead:  Each party is   calling on the other to hammer out a deal: “M eet us halfway and work together to deliver immediate relief to the American people,” Pelosi and Schumer  wrote in a statement.   
  DEMS UNVEIL CONVENTION PLANS:  “Democrats are planning to feature a broad lineup of everyday Americans during their four-day mostly virtual convention next week, placing them in the prime-time spotlight to drive Joe Biden’s messages on health care, the coronavirus pandemic and opposition to [Trump],”  Matt Viser reports this morning .
  The rest of the schedule:  Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) will speak on Monday. Headlining Wednesday night: Biden's running mate, along with former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D- Mass.). Warren's time would change if she becomes Biden's pick. Former president Barack Obama and Michelle Obama will also speak during the week. Biden will take the usual nominee slot on Thursday. 
  VEEP WEEK:  Biden  blew past his first two deadlines , but this is now the final week before the start of the convention, meaning in just days we'll learn who will be the third woman in American history to be selected as a running mate for a major-party ticket.
  Biden world is bracing for sexist and racist attacks:  “Jennifer O’Malley Dillon, Joe Biden’s campaign manager, warned on a recent all-staff call that when his vice presidential pick is announced, sexism will motivate the ugliest attacks against her — no matter who she is,”  Annie Linskey and Isaac Stanley-Becker report .
  Where things stand:  Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer flew to Delaware to meet with Biden at the end of the July, the first known in-person session,  the Associated Press's David Eggert scooped .
  U.S. HITS 5 MILLION CASES:  The grim mark “ comes just 17 days after the U.S. total exceeded 4 million, according to The Post’s tracking. The previous million cases were also reported in about a two-week span,”  Derek Hawkins, Marisa Iati and Jacqueline Dupree report .
  A SCHOOL YEAR LIKE NO OTHER:  “Plans are changing so fast that students and parents can hardly keep up. Districts that spent all summer planning hybrid systems, in which children would be in school part of the week, ditched them as cases surged. Universities changed their teaching models, their start dates and their rules for housing, all with scant notice,”  Laura Meckler, Valerie Strauss and Nick Anderson report .
  The Georgia school in a viral photo will now hold online classes after nine people tested positive:  Students will attend virtually today and Tuesday after six of their classmates and three staff members tested positive for the virus,  the Atlanta Journal-Constitution's Ty Tagami reports  of the school that went viral when students showed unmasked students in crowded hallways. 
  Residents in college towns are worried about what lays ahead:  “We have three highly compromised people in my house,” Christy Dollymore, 61,  told our colleague Lauren Lumpkin  about her new neighbors in College Park, Md., students attending the University of Maryland's flagship campus. “Where am I supposed to go to the grocery store?” 
  ABRUPT CENSUS CHANGE COULD LEAD TO UNDERCOUNT:  “Census experts and advocates warn that the Trump administration’s decision to end the decennial count a month earlier than expected will result in a dramatic undercount of Black and Latino communities across the country, which could have grave effects on federal funding and political representation in their neighborhoods,”  Jose A. Del Real and Fredrick Kunkle report .
  WHAT ELSE YOU NEED TO KNOW: 
  Protesters set fire to Portland police union's headquarters:  “There were multiple peaceful protests around the city on Saturday, but after a brief lull following the Trump administration’s partial retreat from the city last month, the late-night protests [ratcheted up last week] with a renewed focus on the Portland Police Bureau,”  Katie Shepherd reports  from the city.
  Hong Kong media tycoon Jimmy Lai arrested under national security law:  “The dramatic events marked the authorities’ sharpest use of the new security law, and highlighted the growing threat to pro-democracy activists and journalists in Hong Kong, where press freedom is supposed to enjoy constitutional protection,”  Shibani Mahtani reports  from Hong Kong.
  At 20 people shot, one dead after D.C. party:  “A 17-year-old was killed and an off-duty D.C. police officer suffered life-threatening injuries after authorities said at least 20 people were shot when a dispute broke out early Sunday at a cookout attended by hundreds of people in Southeast Washington,”  Peter Hermann, Michael Brice-Saddler and Clarence Williams report .
  College football faces a defining moment:  Major conferences are close to postponing their football seasons and other fall sports until next year,  ESPN  and  Sports Illustrated  reported over the weekend. With this mind, high-profile athletes, including Clemson quarterback Trevor Lawrence and Ohio State QB  Justin Fields , tweeted out a plea to play Sunday. But late last night, a number of those same athletes outlined their united demands, including the ultimate formation of a player's union --  something the NCAA  and conferences have long opposed.
 