with Brent D. Griffiths
  Breaking:  President Trump  tweeted  early Friday that Minneapolis demonstrators who set fire to the city’s Third Precinct were “THUGS” – suggesting military intervention and warning that  there would be “shooting” if looting continued . Twitter soon after flagged his tweet for “glorifying violence”: 
  HOT (MASK) ISSUE:   President Trump's disdain for mask-wearing is now an official 2020 campaign stance:  Days after President Trump ridiculed presumptive nominee Joe Biden for wearing a face covering on Memorial Day, his campaign  last night  blasted the former vice president and specific reporters as “mask-shamers” who “keep getting caught breaking their own rules.” 
  And the Republican National Committee's letter to North Carolina Gov. Roy Cooper (D) outlining  coronavirus  safety protocols it would take at an in-person August convention in Charlotte did not mention whether attendees would be required to wear masks, which federal health authorities strongly recommend for gatherings where it's impossible to social distance. One possible reason:  “Trump has been determined, Republicans in contact with him say, to hold a large-scale convention without an audience filled with masked people,”  our colleagues Josh Dawsey and Annie Linskey say.  
  But making masks a symbol of the culture war, however, is not a battle that most Americans seem to want to partake in  —  or even some of the president's top Republican allies . And it might not sit well with voters, especially independents on the fence.  
  The Biden camp sees it as an opportunity:  “To the amazement of Democrats, the president has consistently put himself on the unpopular side of a not particularly divisive issue: whether to wear a mask while in public spaces” our  colleague Dave Weigel  writes.
  Biden changed his Twitter profile picture to drive the point home: 
  He also hassled The Post's TikTok star Dave  Jorgenson for not wearing one.  
  The divides between Trump and the stances of other Republicans played out publicly all week.  
  There was a stark visual contrast even with members of Trump's family: White House advisers Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner were pictured with face masks on their trip to the Kennedy Space Center in Florida.
  Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) also took a different tact than Trump earlier this week by pitching younger Americans on the “obligation ”  to protect others in public by wearing a face covering.  
  And staff at the White House are largely adhering to the recommendations issued by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  
  It's a well-followed practice on Capitol Hill, too: “All GOP senators wear masks when they are around the Capitol, on the Senate floor and into their lunch meetings  — except Sen. Rand Paul (Ky.), who has recovered from a coronavirus infection and considers himself immune,” Scherer notes. “While speaking at hearings and on the Senate floor, they follow a standard set by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), removing the masks only to speak formally … In the House, a minority of conservative lawmakers, most visibly Rep. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio), have embraced the symbolism of refusing to wear a mask.” 
  The enforcement of facial coverings is becoming actual policy in some states  —  and in some cases, turning into legal battles.  
  In New York,  Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo (D) issued an executive order “authorizing businesses to deny entry to people without face covering comes as outbreak-related restrictions on shops are beginning to loosen, though not yet in New York City,” the  Associated Press's Karen Matthews and Michael Hill report.  
  In San Francisco,  Mayor London Breed (D) announced a beefed-up mask policy that will “ begin requiring nearly everyone to wear a mask when they're not at home — including runners, people on bicycles and in general anyone who is within 30 feet of another person not in their household,” per  NBC News's David Ingram.  
  There are businesses taking the opposite route  — such as Kevin Smith of the Liberty Tree Tavern in Elgin, Texas, who reopened his bar this week.  “'Sorry, no mask allowed,'  read the poster taped to the front door of his bar Friday. ‘Please bare with us thru the ridiculous fearful times,’" per  The Post's Teo Armus.  
  Images of people with  —  and without  —  masks is now a social statement.  “The meaning we give to these masks matter,” Liz Bucar, a professor of religion at Northeastern University, told  our colleague Robin Givhan  about society's sartorial shift.  
  Givhan herself, The Post's fashion critic,  noted  that as of Memorial Day, the mask is now the single accessory that can define the presidency.  
  MINNEAPOLIS IS BURNING:  “Thousands of protesters poured into the streets of downtown Minneapolis and demonstrations spread into surrounding areas on as buildings burning — including a police department’s precinct offices — and as violent skirmishes with police continued,”  Holly Bailey, Jared Goyette, Sheila Regan and Tarkor Zehn report  from the city.
  The Minnesota National Guard has been called in:  “Gov. Tim Walz (D)  has called in reinforcements — the first time the Minnesota National Guard has been activated for a civil disturbance in 34 years. More than 500 Guard members have been activated and sent to Minneapolis, St. Paul and other communities,”  the Star Tribune's Reid Forgrave reports .
  More on Trump's tweet about possible retribution and attack on the city's mayor:  The president's reference to “ when the looting starts, the shooting starts, ”  is a possible nod to the late  Miami Police Chief Walter Headley whose utterance of the phrase in 1967  sparked outraged among local and national black leaders . In a different message, Trump referred to Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey (D) as a “very weak Radical Left Mayor.” 
  This is sure to bring more reaction today:  The social media giant's decision to label two of the president's tweets earlier this week enraged Trump – and sparked an executive order to rein in tech companies. 
  TRUMP GOES SOCIAL:  “Trump signed an executive order that could open the door for the U.S. government to assume oversight of political speech on the Internet, a broadside against Silicon Valley that a wide array of critics derided as a threat to free speech,”  Tony Romm and Elizabeth Dwoskin report .
  What it means:  “The new directive seeks to change a federal law that has spared tech companies from being sued or held liable for most posts, photos and videos shared by users on their sites. Tech giants herald these protections, known as Section 230, as the bedrock of the Internet," our colleagues write. "But Trump repeatedly has argued they allow Facebook, Google and Twitter to censor conservatives with impunity — charges these companies deny.”
  But it's not that simple:  “Trump’s order may prove difficult or impossible to enforce, experts said even before the president had signed it,” our colleagues write. “Internally, some Silicon Valley leaders viewed the policy as a political move that might not withstand legal scrutiny. Still, they expressed an early openness to challenging the executive order in court …"
  ADMINISTRATION MISHANDLED DISTRIBUTION OF VIRUS DRUG:  “The first tranche of 607,000 vials of the antiviral medication remdesivir … was distributed in early May — in some cases to the wrong hospitals, to hospitals with no intensive care units and therefore no eligible patients, and to facilities without the needed refrigeration to store it, meaning some had to be returned to the government,”  Yasmeen Abutaleb, Josh Dawsey, Lena H. Sun and Laurie McGinley report. 
  Doctors said any delay or reduced availability of the drug is potentially catastrophic:  Remdesivir is the only approved treatment for covid-19 patients. Drugmaker Gilead Sciences donated the initial vials to the government.
  THE DMV BEGINS REOPENING:  “For the first time in nearly two months, Washingtonians will be able to dine at a restaurant (outside seating only), get a haircut and shop curbside from stores deemed nonessential. Indoor worship services will be capped at 10 people, and gyms, pools and day camps will still be shuttered,”  Fenit Nirappil, Emily Davies and Ovetta Wiggins report .
  What about NOVA?:  “Northern Virginia, the city of Richmond and rural Accomak County will join the rest of the state in a partial reopening [today] and all public beaches in the state will also reopen, though Virginians everywhere will also be required to start wearing face masks in public spaces,"  Antonio Olivo reports .
  What about Maryland?:  “Maryland’s two largest D.C. suburbs will begin to lift shutdown restrictions Monday,”  Antonio Olivo, Rachel Chason, Rebecca Tan and Laura Vozzella report  of Montgomery and Prince George's county.
 