with Brent D. Griffiths
  Good Wednesday morning, Power People. Tips, comments, recipes?  Reach out  and  sign up . Thanks for waking up with us. 
  ZOOMING IN ON THE NEW WASHINGTON: The first major “in person” Senate hearing on the  coronavirus  crisis  —  which lasted nearly four hours — solidified the beginning of Washington's new normal.  
  Four of the nation's top health officials warned lawmakers during the virtual hearing about  the deadly risks of opening states and cities too quickly  — and the potential for a resurgence of the disease. 
  With the death toll  crossing  81,000 in the United States, and at least 1,363,000 cases reported, the witnesses outlined a long slog in developing a vaccine and even therapeutics to ease the severity of the disease — and even to ramp up contact tracing and the nation's public health laboratory capacity.  But the hearing itself was a snapshot of the ways in which the pandemic is bringing Washington power centers back online  —  even as it changes business as usual.  
  All four witnesses appeared remotely, as most came into contact with a White House staffer who tested positive for coronavirus. 
  Dr.  Anthony S. Fauci , the nation’s top infectious disease expert, appeared to be taking the call from his home office. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director  Robert Redfield  appeared before a cluttered bookshelf against a teal-painted wall and Food and Drug Administration Commissioner  Stephen Hahn  apparently  chose  a Getty stock image as his virtual background of choice. President Trump’s coronavirus testing czar, Adm. Brett Giroir, who has no known exposure, appeared in an official-looking office before four flags.
  The virtual hearing allowed senators to grill the witnesses from their kitchens, living rooms and what appeared to be man caves with signs of their personal lives — from framed pictures, quirky posters, and fresh flowers — peppering the scenes. 
  Other senators chose to testify from inside the briefing room, sitting six feet apart from each other.  Further highlighting the split on lawmakers' approaches:  Some wore face coverings. 
  The U.S. is now among governments across the world  —  from Canada to the European Union  —  that have moved to remote governance.  
  Even highly anticipated oral arguments from the U.S. Supreme Court are being conducted remotely via telephone and live stream for the second week in a row.  Aside from jarring moments such as the  sound of a toilet flushing ,  the broadcasts have allowed for the court's work to resume and are making history on their own.
  Politicians! They're just like us:  The Senate hearing provided intimate peeks into lawmakers' otherwise shielded private lives. And moments of levity have emerged as lawmakers adjust to life on Zoom, Skype and WebEx. 
  We got new insight into Sen. Bernie Sanders's musical taste even during a grim line of questioning, as the Vermont senator grilled Fauci about the true death toll, which many Trump allies frequently  insist is wrongly inflated. 
  And Sen. Mitt Romney (R-Utah) sat in front of a wall plastered with photos of his grandchildren as he panned the White House's celebration of its coronavirus testing efforts.  “I find our testing record nothing to celebrate whatsoever, ”   Romney said . The senator pointed out that South Korea  —  which Trump boasted the U.S. has surpassing in testing capacity alongside Giroir at a  news conference  this week  —  had many more tests available earlier was able to better control its outbreak. 
  Still, the conditions are not ideal for policymakers  —  or even the reporters covering them, who cannot sidebar with lawmakers or witnesses for comment.  The virtual new format inevitably changes the intensity of debate, and will probably mitigate the pressure that House and Senate leaders are able to exert on their members in-person. 
  When it comes to the Supreme Court, CNN's Joan Biskupic  says the new medium   could affect the outcome of the cases being argued because of the “ altered the nature of the court's usual freewheeling but substantive give-and-take.”  
  Lawmakers are quickly finding ways to adapt.  The screen between Fauci and Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.), who sat in the briefing room without a face covering, did not stop a pointed exchange between the two from playing out.  
  The transformation of political life will only become more obvious as the election year progresses.  
  There's already a split emerging between the parties as we get closer to November. The Democratic Party this week announced moves to suggest that it's moving toward a virtual convention — while the Trump campaign maintains that the Republican National Convention will still take place as planned in Charlotte, North Carolina. In person. 
  The president has already picked up his travel to battleground states again in his bid to reopen the country.  He  made an appearance  at an Arizona Honeywell International plant that produces respirator masks last week. 
  Not everyone is on board with his coronavirus etiquette:  Our colleague  Carol Leonnig scooped  yesterday that Trump's visit to a Pennsylvania factory scheduled for last Friday was canceled by factory officials who “ultimately asked to postpone, worried that a visit from Trump could jeopardize both the safety of the workers and the plant’s ability to produce special material for masks and other medical gear, according to two people familiar with the decision and documents reviewed by The Post.” 
  And there will be big debates in the nation's capital about how to transition key staples of government: Voting on the Hill and at the ballot box.  
  Expect movement on this today:  House leaders have yet to find a compromise on changing House rules to allow proxy voting and remote hearings but House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif) and top Democrats “ now say they will move ahead with a rules change anyway,” reports  Politico's Heather Caygle, Sarah Ferris, and John Bresnahan.  
  Democrats are also pushing for universal vote-by-mail  to protect voters from health risks at the ballot box amid the pandemic — a new politically fraught issue that  our colleague Erica Werner reports  Trump and many Republicans oppose because they say it invites fraud. 
  AMERICANS ARE MORE PESSIMISTIC ON GETTING BACK TO NORMAL:  “Americans are curbing their expectations about when it will be safe for gatherings of 10 or more people, with about 2 in 3 adults now saying it will not be until July or later before those events can happen, according to a Washington Post-University of Maryland poll,”  Dan Balz and Scott Clement report.  
  There's still strong support for staying home:  “With more than half the states moving to reopen their economies, and other data showing more Americans on the move even in the face of shelter-at-home orders, the poll finds widespread support for people in communities to practice social distancing, wear masks outside and follow other practices health officials have recommended to mitigate the spread of the coronavirus,” our colleagues write.
  HOUSE DEMS UNVEIL $3 TRILLION VIRUS RESPONSE BILL:  The package would direct money “to state and local governments, health systems, and a range of other initiatives, setting up a huge clash with Senate Republicans and the White House over how to deal with the sputtering economy,”  Erica Werner reports .
  The House is expected to vote on the bill on Friday:  The 1,800-page legislation establishes a $200 billion “Heroes Fund” to extend hazard pay to essential workers, our colleague writes. “It would also send a second — and larger — round of direct payments to individual Americans, up to $6,000 per household.”
  FLYNN CASE PUT ON HOLD:  “A U.S. judge put on hold the Justice Department’s move to drop charges against Michael Flynn, saying he expects independent groups and legal experts to argue against the bid to exonerate [Trump’s] former national security adviser of lying to the FBI,”  Spencer S. Hsu and Carol D. Leonnig report .
  SCOTUS SEEMS SPLIT OVER TRUMP SUBPOENAS:  “The highly anticipated Supreme Court arguments over [Trump’s] efforts to block disclosure of his income tax returns and private financial records suggested the possibility of a mixed outcome,”  Robert Barnes and Ann E. Marimow report .
  We might not see Trump's tax returns or financial records before November:  “Several justices suggested there might be more work for lower courts to do, which could delay any turnover of the documents being sought by congressional Democrats and Manhattan’s district attorney until after November’s election,” our colleagues write.
  RECAP ON TUESDAY'S ELECTIONS:  “The GOP held a congressional seat in rural Wisconsin and aimed to seize a Democratic one in suburban California as voters cast ballots in special elections on Tuesday,”  Colby Itkowitz reports .
  The latest from California:  “Republican Mike Garcia jumped to an early lead … over Democrat Christy Smith in the runoff for a House seat in the Los Angeles suburbs, raising GOP hopes of flipping a blue California congressional district for the first time since 1998,”  the Los Angeles Times's Arit John reports .
  Progressive challenger repeats upset in Nebraska:  Kara Eastman will again take on Rep. Don Bacon (R-Neb.) in the Omaha-area 2nd District this November. Eastman bested Ann Ashford, the wife of former congressman Brad Ashford (D-Neb.), whom Eastman upset in 2018 as he tried to reclaim his seat,  the Omaha World-Herald's Henry J. Cordes and Aaron Sanderford report .
 