with Brent D. Griffiths
  Good morning and welcome back.  Don't do this.  Tips, comments, recipes?  Reach out  and  sign up . Thanks for waking up with us. 
  STIMULUS LIMBO:  Senate leaders and Trump administration officials sounded positive late last night that they were nearing bipartisan agreement on a $2 trillion stimulus bill to respond to the  coronavirus  pandemic that is shutting down the U.S. economy — what would be the largest rescue package in modern history.  
  Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) emerged from hours of negotiations just before midnight to tell reporters they hope to announce a deal this morning,  according to our colleagues  Erica Werner, Paul Kane, Rachael Bade and Mike DeBonis:  
  Those differences: Democrats again refused to support the bill yesterday  over concerns   that the legislation  still  did not go far enough in providing assistance to workers, families and health care providers. 
  The major sticking point? How large pools of money would be disbursed to distressed corporations.  Specifically, Democrats maintained that loans from a $500 billion fund to help large businesses needed additional oversight and transparency. 
  But  Politico's John  Bresnahan , Marianne Levine, and Sarah Ferris report  that the issue over the $500 billion fund has been resolved, along with other outstanding issues such as funding for hospitals to handle the influx of sick patients.  
  Another win for Democrats:  “Democrats won one concession — to provide four months of expanded unemployment benefits, rather than just three as proposed, according to an official granted anonymity to discuss the private talks,” according to the  Associated Press's Lisa Mascaro, Andrew Taylor, and Jon Lemire.  
  What else we know about the rest of the package as it currently stands:  
  THE COUNTERPROPOSAL: House Democrats rolled out a competing 1,400 page stimulus proposal on Monday night.  
  House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's $2.5 trillion bill includes $150 billion in funding for the health-care system, including hospitals, community health centers and government health programs — and an additional $80 billion in low-interest loans to hospitals. It contains $500 billion in “grants and interest-free loans, some with forgivable components” for small businesses, according to a bill summary provided by Democrats. 
  It would send $1,500 in immediate cash assistance to individual Americans and up to $7,500 for a family of five. It also includes employment compensation of $600 per week for any worker affected by covid-19. 
  There are some notable differences between the latest in the Senate and what House Democrats included:  
  From Pelosi:  “ Democrats take responsibility for our workers. We require that any corporation that takes taxpayer dollars must protect their workers’ wages and benefits — not CEO pay, stock buybacks or layoffs,”  the House speaker said during a news conference last night.  
  The criticisms: “ But Republicans countered that Democrats are slow-walking any agreement while seeking inclusion of extraneous provisions onto the package that have nothing to do with the coronavirus outbreak, like fuel emission standards for airlines and more wind and solar tax credits,” according to John, Marianne and Sarah. 
  TRUMP MAY SOON PUSH BUSINESSES TO REOPEN:  The president said “that he may soon loosen federal guidelines for social distancing and encourage shuttered businesses to reopen – defying public health experts, who have warned that doing so risks accelerating the spread of the novel coronavirus or even allowing it to rebound,”  our colleagues Philip Rucker, Jeff Stein, Josh Dawsey and Ashley Parker report .
  Pressure continues to grow on the president as stock prices plummet:  “Trump has received urgent pleas from rattled business leaders, Republican lawmakers and conservative economists imploring him to remove some of the stringent social distancing guidelines that he put in place for a 15-day period ending March 30, according to several people with knowledge of the internal deliberations,” our colleagues write.
  Among Trump's other points: 
  Trump isn't the only one making the economic argument:  Texas Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick set up the potential for sacrifice as an almost patriotic duty. 
  NATION FACES GRIM WEEK:  “For the first time since the coronavirus pandemic reached U.S. soil, the country reported more than 100 deaths in a single day, pushing the death toll past 500 and the infection total to more than 41,000,”  our colleague Brady Dennis reports .
  An increasing share of the country is shutting down:  “More than 100 million Americans — nearly one in three — are under orders from their governors to stay at home. Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis (R) ordered all passengers on all flights that originate in New York or New Jersey to self-quarantine for 14 days when they arrive in the state. Rhode Island Gov. Gina M. Raimondo (D) ordered a similar quarantine for any person flying into her state,” our colleague writes.
  THE LATEST IN THE DMV:  “Virginia closed all schools for the rest of the academic year and Maryland ordered all nonessential businesses to shut their doors as the coronavirus continued to spread, with health care workers sounding the alarm about dwindling supplies of protective gear,”  our colleagues Gregory S. Schneider, Ovetta Wiggins, Laura Vozzella and Kyle Swenson report . 
  Virginia is now just the second state in the country  to cancel classes for the rest of the academic year. Gov. Ralph Northam (D) also directed a number of recreational and entertainment businesses to close, including gyms, barber shops and movie theaters. 
  Maryland is now just short of a shelter-in-place in order:  Gov. Larry Hogan (R) closed all nonessential businesses, but said an order like those in place in California and New York was not necessary. 
  District officials are scrambling for ways to increase hospital capacity:  “The effort could include using unlicensed spaces such as hallways and scouting locations that could be reconfigured, such as furloughed nursing homes or unused hotels, said Christopher Rodriguez, the city’s top homeland security official,” our colleagues write.
  WHAT WE'RE LEARNING ABOUT THE CORONAVIRUS:  “Very recent innovations in imaging techniques enabled researchers to peer so closely at the novel virus’s spikes that they created a model of one, right down to the atoms, and are beginning to reveal its secrets,”  our colleagues Bonnie Berkowitz, Aaron Steckelberg and John Muyskens report .
 