with Brent D. Griffiths 
  Good Thursday morning. Just in: Former President Barack Obama's new memoir. ‘A Promised Land,’ will be published on Nov. 17 – his publisher has ordered 3 million copies for the first printing of the U.S. edition, per the  New York Times's Elizabeth Harris . Thanks for waking up with us.  
  THE GOP'S BIG GAMBLE:  GOP strategists and Capitol Hill staffers don't seem especially worried that inaction on a new  coronavirus  stimulus bill will damage the Republican Party's hope of maintaining its Senate majority.
  They argue there hasn't been a loud public outcry at the lack of another stimulus package, despite the  193,000 U.S. deaths  from the virus and no real end in sight to the health and economic crisis. And some are convinced vulnerable Republicans up for reelection in November will get the credit they need for passing the  $2 trillion Cares Act  in March and for casting a vote last week in favor of the $650 billion “ skinny ” relief bill that failed to advance.
  It’s a big risk, however:  Thirteen GOP-held seats are being seriously contested in November and the Democrats need only four net seats to recapture the majority (or three if they win the White House). Republicans only have two real chances to nab Democratic-held Senate seats.
  Race-rater:  Our  colleague Amber Phillips  reports that Sens. Cory Gardner (R-Colo.) and Martha McSally (R-Ariz.) are the most vulnerable Republican incumbents, rating their seats as “more likely to flip than not.” Though Sen. Doug Jones (D-Ala.) “r emains the most vulnerable senator in 2020,” per Amber, GOP-held seats in North Carolina, Maine, Iowa, Georgia, and Montana are all toss-ups. And the Republican-held seats in  Georgia, South Carolina, Texas, Kansas, Kentucky, and Alaska  “could flip under the right conditions,” according to Amber.  
  A poll from  Quinnipiac University released yesterday  showed promising numbers for Democrats in Maine and South Carolina:  Democrat Sara Gideon has opened up a large lead in Maine over Sen. Susan Collins (R) and Jaime Harrison, the Democrat in South Carolina, is tied with Sen. Lindsay Graham (R-S.C.). McSally, Gardner, Sen. Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), and Sen. Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), are all in tight races, according to polls, too.  
  But the political danger posed to their colleagues – and the Senate GOP majority – doesn't seem to be worrying conservative deficit hawks, who so far have been unwilling to get behind a meatier relief bill.  Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), himself up for reelection, hasn't been able to corral the votes for such an effort and any quest to do so was further complicated by President Trump  yesterday tweeting  Republicans should embrace a relief bill with “much higher numbers."
  Some senators and Trump administration officials contend the deficit hawks shouldn't be so concerned about a soaring price tag and extending popular features of the Cares Act like the $600 enhanced unemployment payment that expired in July and the $1,200 direct payment to people under a certain income threshold.
  During a briefing with reporters on Wednesday, Trump expressed support – but didn't explicitly endorse –   the $1.5 trillion plan by the bipartisan House Problem Solvers Caucus.  “ The proposal includes a new round of $1,200 stimulus checks to individual Americans, a provision omitted from an approximately $300 billion plan Senate Republicans tried unsuccessfully to pass last week,” according to Erica and Rachael.  
  However, Democrats already rejected the proposal for not going far enough and Republicans dismissed it for costing too much. 
  And Democrats have their own internal problems on the stimulus.  House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) has come under pressure for refusing to back down from her  $2.2 trillion offer , “ including [from] lawmakers in tough reelection races, over  Congressional  inaction on new economic relief,” Erica and Rachael report.  
  A bet Republicans are willing to take:  A National Republican Senatorial Committee e-mail sent out yesterday morning highlighted the “angst and growing unrest among House Democrats over Congress' handling of the coronavirus,” as reported by Politico's  Heather Caygle, Sarah Ferris and John Bresnahan.  “This issue will continue to haunt down-ballot Democrats this fall,” the staffer added. 
  Some still maintain, however, that at the end of the day, Trump still trumps the lack of congressional action at the ballot box.  
  See Collins in Maine, for example:  “The tide has turned on Sen. Susan Collins, who was so popular in Maine that she won nearly 70 percent of the vote the last time she ran,” according to Quinnipiac University polling analyst Mary Snow,  per our colleague John Wagner . “Likely voters are sending the message that there’s no ‘middle of the road’ when it comes to President Trump, who is deeply unpopular in the state.”
  NOT JUST DAYLIGHT BETWEEN TRUMP AND HEALTH OFFICIALS:  “The director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention predicted that most of the American public will not have access to a vaccine against the coronavirus until late spring or summer of next year — prompting a public rebuke from Trump, who declared the CDC chief was wrong,”  Amy Goldstein and Sean Sullivan report .
  That directly contradicted Trump's  insistent public tease  that a vaccine could be available by the start of November and “ go immediately ” to the public. And Trump threw Redfield under the bus in a later press conference.
  Trump said he thinks Redfield ‘made a mistake’:  
  The president also knocked Redfield’s continuing push for more Americans to wear masks. Redfield had testified a mask “is more guaranteed to protect me against covid than when I take a covid vaccine.”
  Meawhile, Joe Biden said he doesn’t trust Trump’s handling of the vaccine approval process:  “I trust vaccines. I trust scientists. But I don’t trust Donald Trump,”  he said , adding Americans should trust a vaccine developed by the Trump administration only if the president gives “honest answers” about its safety and effectiveness. “And at this point, the American people can’t, either.” 
  BARR SLAMS HIS OWN DEPARTMENT:   In an extraordinary public broadside against his own Justice Department lawyers, the attorney general and Trump acoloyte said he alone should have the power to overrule career prosecutors who he called “headhunters” in search of high-profile cases.
  William P. Barr compared some DOJ employees to children:  “The attorney general said it was he, not career officials, who has the ultimate authority to decide how cases should be handled, and he derided less-experienced, less-senior bureaucrats who current and former prosecutors have long insisted should be left to handle their cases free from interference from political appointees,”  Devlin Barrett and Matt Zapotosky report .
  Former attorney general Eric Holder criticized the comparison: 
  But Barr wasn’t done: 
  Barr's been busy:  He also “told the nation’s federal prosecutors to be aggressive when charging violent demonstrators with crimes, including potentially prosecuting them for plotting to overthrow the U.S. government,”  the Wall Street Journal’s Aruna Viswanatha and Sadie Gurman report  of a call Barr had with prosecutors last week encouraging to consider using the rarely used sedition law.
  TRUMP DID LITTLE AFTER BEING WARNED ABOUT COVID:  “A detailed review of the 10-day period from late January, when Trump was first warned about the scale of the threat, and early February — when he acknowledged to author Bob Woodward the extent of the danger the virus posed — reveals a president who took relatively few serious measures to ready the nation for its arrival,”  Ashley Parker, Josh Dawsey and Yasmeen Abutaleb report .
  Meanwhile, as the nation approaches the grim milestone of 200,000 deaths:  “ If you take the blue states out, we’re at a level that I don’t think anybody in the world would be at. We’re really at a very low level. But some of the states, they were blue states and blue state-managed,” the president told reporters in an argument for why his pandemic management has worked. 
  And top Trump Health and Human Service's aide  Michael Caputo is taking medical leave  after posting a Facebook Live rant accusing department officials of “sedition.”
   
  SALLY SLAMS FLORIDA, ALABAMA:  “Hurricane Sally blasted into the southeastern United States unleashing massive floodwaters and powerful winds along the coast from the Florida Panhandle to Mobile, Ala., that swallowed up roadways and left hundreds of thousands without electricity,”  T.S. Strickland, Ashley Cusick and Maria Sacchetti report  from Pensacola, Fla.
  WHAT ELSE YOU NEED TO KNOW:  
  Federal officials stockpiled munitions, sought “heat ray” device before clearing Lafayette Square:  “Hours before law enforcement forcibly cleared protesters from Lafayette Square in early June amid protests over the police killing of George Floyd, federal officials began to stockpile ammunition and seek devices that could emit deafening sounds and make anyone within range feel like their skin is on fire, according to an Army National Guard major who was there,”  Marissa J. Lang reports .
  Big Ten football is coming back:  “Five weeks after postponing its football season over safety concerns, the Big Ten Conference reversed course Wednesday, saying it would play this fall even as its colleges and surrounding communities struggle to contain the novel coronavirus,”  Rick Maese, Emily Giambalvo and Ben Strauss report .
  Remembering Stanley Crouch:  “Crouch, a cultural critic whose contrarian and trenchant writings exploring music, politics, race and literature made him a prominent and often controversial figure in American arts and letters, died Sept. 16 at a New York hospital. He was 74,”  Matt Schudel writes in The Post's obit .
 