with Brent D. Griffiths
  Good morning and welcome back. Tips, comments, hand sanitizer? Reach out and  sign up . Thanks for waking up with us.  
  NOT FEELING THE BERN?  Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) conceded yesterday that young people haven't turned out in the numbers he needs to win the Democratic nomination. It was a stark departure from his campaign's bullish bet just weeks earlier, on the eve of the New Hampshire primary, that it could “ expand turnout in a way that few other Democratic candidates can do .” And the problem could have strategic implications for Sanders going forward. 
  But the exit polling from this year's contests so far shows a more challenging picture for Sanders.    Youth turnout compared to 2016 is either flat or down in a majority of states that have voted,  according to the Harvard Institute of Politics,  meaning young voters both form a smaller share of the overall Democratic primary vote and turned out in smaller net numbers. Sanders could end up seeing better data for him from the final results in Colorado and California, however.
  The lack of enthusiasm among younger voters was especially pronounced with turnout up 33 percent from 2016 among every group across Super Tuesday states. 
  Time to panic?:  The picture isn't entirely clear, however. Groups tracking young voters are debating whether Tuesday night was really a downturn, depending on the benchmark with which it's compared.
  The Center for Information & Research on Civic Learning and Engagement (CIRCLE) at Tufts University told Power Up that youth turnout overall in 2020 is mostly higher compared to 2012 turnout  —  the most recent election cycle in which there was only a single competitive primary.  
  It's true that Sanders is doing very well with young people  — especially in comparison to Biden. But we don't yet know exactly why they haven't turned out in the droves Sanders predicted to form the new coalition he boasts will help him surf into the White House.
  Hazy campaign rallies-turned-indie rock band concerts featuring appearances by progressive icons like Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) are simply not enough, experts who track youth vote participation argue about voter contact efforts with 18 to 29 year-olds. 
  Pollsters and experts in young voter behavior said a variety of things could be responsible for how young voters are behaving so far this cycle:  from a misconception they're as progressive as people think they are; to the idea that Barack Obama's win with them in 2008 can be replicated.
  Radical : Della Volpe said  data  doesn't necessarily support the idea that all young voters want the kind of sweeping policy changes candidates like Sanders are calling for. 
  Most agreed, however, that youth turnout in the Democratic primary is not necessarily predictive of turnout in the general election. But the results are a warning for whoever becomes the Democratic nominee — especially for Biden, who has not seen much youth excitement thus far. 
  Note to readers:  We eliminated a graphic we originally used to compare youth turnout in 2016 to 2020. The exit polls now use a different method to weight samples by age and education, and so the numbers may not be comparable.
  WARREN ALLIES IN TALKS WITH SANDERS, BIDEN:  “Top surrogates and allies of Sens. Elizabeth Warren and [Sanders] are discussing ways for their two camps to unite and push a common liberal agenda, with the expectation that Warren is likely to leave the presidential campaign soon, according to two people familiar with the talks,”  our colleagues Annie Linskey and Sean Sullivan report .
  The talks largely involved pro-Sanders lawmakers reaching out to Warren's team:  The conversations involve a potential endorsement of Sanders, our colleagues report. Sanders  told Maddow  he spoke to Warren himself in a “very cordial” phone call. He reiterated that Warren has more than earned the time to consider what comes next, but added “essentially she has run her campaign the way we have” and they agree “on major issue after major issue” even if there are some “nuances and differences.”
  BLOOMBERG DROPS OUT, ENDORSES BIDEN:  Billionaire Mike Bloomberg will put his resources “in the broadest way possible behind [Biden’s] candidacy,” Tim O’Brien, a senior adviser to the Bloomberg campaign,  told our colleagues Amy B Wang and Michael Scherer . “We have long-term leases and long-term contracts with the team and the intention was always to put this big machine we have built behind whoever the nominee is.”
  The former New York mayor spent more than $100 per vote in most states:  That's based on Bloomberg's more than $200 million invested in advertising in the 14 Super Tuesday states and analysis of Advertising Analytics data,  our colleagues Kevin Schaul and Alyssa Fowers report .
  THE HEALTH CARE SYSTEM ISN'T READY:  “The growing coronavirus outbreak in the United States is revealing serious gaps in the health system’s ability to respond to a major epidemic, forcing hospitals and doctors to improvise emergency plans daily, even as they remain uncertain how bad the crisis will get,”  our colleagues Christopher Rowland and Peter Whoriskey report .
  Here are just some of the gaps,  our colleagues reported. One of the most startlingly, and arguably preventable, is the lack of protective equipment such as masks for health-care workers due to panic buying and hoarding. 
  California declares state of emergency:  Gov. Gavin Newsom (D) announced the state is holding a cruise ship off the coast of San Francisco because it has two links to suspected coronavirus cases — one of which was fatal. He also declared a state of emergency to help mobilize resources as his state now has the most cases in the U.S. at 54, the New York Times  reports .  
  House passes over $8 billion in funding:  House lawmakers passed an $8.3 billion emergency package to fight the outbreak by a 415 to 2 vote,  our colleagues Erica Werner and Mike DeBonis report . The Senate may pass the bill as soon as today and Trump is expected to sign it into law.
  TRUMP SENDS MIX MESSAGES. AGAIN:  The president doubted the World Health Organization's finding that the covid-19, the disease that results from the coronavirus, has a 3.4 percent mortality rate on a “hunch”  during an interview with Fox News host Sean Hannity . The  WHO recently increased  the estimated global mortality rate from 2 percent, but Trump mused that it was “way under 1 percent.”
  ROBERTS REBUKES SCHUMER:  “Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. issued a rare rebuke of a sitting member of Congress, chastising the Senate’s top Democrat, Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer, for saying at a rally outside the Supreme Court that [Trump’s] two nominees to the court would ‘pay the price’ for a vote against abortion rights,”  our colleagues Robert Barnes and Colby Itkowitz report .
  Republicans demanded an apology:  But Sen. Josh Hawley (R-Mo.)  said on Twitter  Schumer is incapable of expressing such remorse.  So instead, Hawley vowed to introduce a motion to censure the minority leader for his comments. For his part,  Trump suggested  if a Republican made comments similar to Schumer's that they would “be arrested or impeached. ”  ( Senators can't be impeached .) 
  Background to the flap:  The Supreme Court was hearing its first major abortion-related case since Neil M. Gorsuch and Brett M. Kavanaugh were confirmed,  our colleagues Robert Barnes and Ann E. Marimow report  of oral arguments regarding a Louisiana law that requires admitting privileges at nearby hospitals for abortion-clinic doctors.
  Why this could be a big deal:  The court's four liberal justices appear to be convinced the Louisiana law is identical to a Texas law the court struck down four years ago. But a decision upholding the law could “be momentous if it signaled that the court was ready to revisit past decisions,” our colleagues write. A ruling is also expected to come before the end of June a.k.a. in the heat of the presidential campaign.
 