That notorious cut-up Mitch McConnell got an early jump on April Fools’ Day this year, blaming Democrats for the Trump administration’s failure to prepare for the novel  coronavirus  pandemic.
  “It came up while we were, you know, tied down in the impeachment trial,” the  Senate majority leader said  Tuesday. “And I think it diverted the attention of the government.”
  In addition to implicitly acknowledging that President Trump wasn’t paying attention to the growing danger, it was a curious entry into the blame game for the Kentucky Republican, who recently said this isn’t “a time for  partisan bickering. ”
  If anybody was diverted, it was McConnell, who, along with most of his GOP colleagues, again put lockstep defense of the president ahead of the national interest. During the three weeks of the impeachment trial, public health experts gave stark warnings about the growing biological threat. In that same time, several Senate Democrats (and a few Republicans) urged a more robust mobilization.
  You know who said nothing? McConnell.
  Other than a routine  scheduling announcement  about an all-senators briefing on Jan. 23, the first time he spoke about the coronavirus in public was Feb. 25, nearly three weeks after the impeachment trial ended, when he was asked at a news conference whether administration officials are “on the same page when it comes to combating coronavirus.”
  McConnell’s answer, in toto: “Well, I think Senator Blunt knows more about that than anyone else. Roy, do you want to take another shot at that?”
  In his first  substantive remarks  on the virus, two days later, he praised the Trump administration’s response to the virus and condemned Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer’s “partisan political attacks,” “posturing” and “performative outrage” because Schumer called Trump’s coronavirus funding request inadequate.
  After the impeachment trial ended and as the coronavirus menace grew, McConnell had the Senate take up  two campaign-year abortion bills  that had no chance of passage.
  It was an echo of the impeachment trial itself. During impeachment, public servants and Democrats warned that Trump was putting his political interests (an announced probe of his opponent) over national security (by withholding military aid to an ally in distress) — and Republicans stood by him.  Likewise, as the virus spread, experts and many Democrats pleaded for more urgency.  But Trump put his political interests (stock market gains) ahead of public health (by playing down the virus danger). And Republicans  averted their gaze .
  In the middle of the impeachment trial, on Jan. 26, Schumer demanded that the administration declare a public health emergency so that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention could access more funds. “Should the outbreak get worse, they’re going to need immediate access to critical federal funds that at present they can’t access,” Schumer  said . “We aren’t here to propel panic or stoke fear, but to rather keep a good proactive effort by the CDC from going on [un]interrupted.”
  A day later, 31 Senate Democrats signed a  letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar  asking if “any additional resources or action by Congress are needed.”
  Certainly, the virus got  less media attention  because of impeachment. And few in either party anticipated the scale of the outbreak here. But Senate Democrats point to 32 other warnings, requests and statements they made seeking action against the virus — all while the Senate impeachment trial was underway. It begins with Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) on Jan. 17 releasing a letter to Azar about steps “ should this outbreak escalate ,” and includes several requests to increase preparedness and to  reinstate the National Security Council directorate  for pandemics that Trump had dissolved.
  More general warnings long pre-dated impeachment and came from a few Republicans, too. Rep. Tom Cole (R-Okla.)  warned in 2017  about Trump’s attempts to cut funding for pandemic preparedness. In 2018, Sens. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Patty Murray (D-Wash.) repeatedly warned the White House that we are “ unprepared for pandemic outbreaks .”
  Senate Republicans knew the coronavirus danger. Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr (N.C.), while saying publicly that we were “ better prepared than ever ,” seems to have been spooked enough about the coming pandemic to sell off stock worth as much as $1.7 million in mid-February and is now under  Justice Department investigation . Around the same time, Sen. Ron Johnson (Wis.), the Republican chairman of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, complained that administration officials refused to participate in a hearing where he received alarming forecasts about the virus.
  But with  few exceptions , they didn’t sound the alarm. And so a bad situation turned into a catastrophe because of a familiar pathology: a president who repeatedly puts self-interest above the national interest — and political allies in Congress who let him.
  The Washington Post is now the only place you can read my columns online.  Sign up for this special subscription offer  to keep reading. And thank you! 
  Read more: 
  Danielle Allen: A better way to defeat the virus and restore the economy 
  Alexandra Petri: ‘I appreciate you, Mr. President!’: A template for governors 
  Josh Rogin: The National Security Council sounded early alarms about the coronavirus 
 