Four  cruising  giants said Friday they were temporarily suspending sailings as governments and businesses continue to enact tough measures to contain the spread of the coronavirus.
  Royal Caribbean, Carnival, MSC Cruises and the Norwegian Cruise Line announced they were halting trips through April. President Trump tweeted Friday that the measures were made at his request and take effect at midnight.
  "At my request, effective midnight tonight, Carnival, Royal Caribbean, Norwegian, and MSC have all agreed to suspend outbound cruises for thirty days. It is a great and important industry – it will be kept that way!" Trump wrote.
  In a statement to Fox News, Royal Caribbean said it will suspend cruises in the United States for 30 days.
  "Cruises that depart U.S. ports before midnight tonight and international cruises will operate their scheduled itineraries," the statement reads. "U.S. ships already at sea will finish their itineraries as planned."
  CLICK HERE FOR COMPLETE CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE 
  The cruise line said it was reaching out to guests and crew members impacted by the decision. It did not provide information on possible refunds. Around 114 trips on 26 ships will be impacted, the  Miami Herald  reported.
  MSC Cruises canceled its sailings in the U.S. until April 30. Carnival’s Costa Cruises will return to service between April 3 and May 3 and its Aida cruise line said it was halting trips through April 10, the  Wall Street Journal  reported.
  “The cruises currently taking place will now call at ports to allow guests to disembark and return to their homes,” a Carnival spokesman told the newspaper.
  Miami-based Norwegian said it will suspend cruises between Friday and April 11 for its three brands: Norwegian Cruise Lines, Oceania Cruises and Regent Seven Seas Cruises.
  The announcements come a day after Princess Cruises said it will suspend sailings for 60 days following coronavirus outbreaks on two of its ships -- the Diamond Princess and the Grand Princess.
  Norwegian said it has not experienced any confirmed coronavirus cases across its 28-ship fleet but made the decision out of an abundance of caution.
  “The safety, security and well-being of our guests and crew is our highest priority. With the COVID-19 coronavirus impacting communities around the globe, we have enacted a voluntary temporary suspension of cruise voyages across our brands effective immediately,” said Frank Del Rio, president and CEO of Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings.
  CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP 
  Guests impacted by the move will be given a refund in the form of the fare paid or credits to be applied toward future cruises through Dec. 31, 2022.
  The cruise industry has seen a dramatic decline as the virus, known as COVID-19, has spread worldwide, impacting nearly every industry. During his Friday conference where he declared a  national emergency ,  Trump  said he has considered offering the cruise industry financial assistance.
 