A San Diego gym that was shut down after operating in defiance of the county’s health order to close last week has experienced an outbreak of coronavirus.
  According to the San Diego Health and Human Services Department, The Gym in Pacific Beach defied health orders and remained open despite an order to close indoor operations to prevent spread of coronavirus. The business was sent a letter last Thursday and told to close immediately, but it didn’t shut until days later on Monday, county health officials said. 
  While it wasn’t clear how many cases were linked to the gym, county health officials said an outbreak is considered three or more cases from different households stemming from a specific location. 
  According to San Diego Health Officer Wilma Wooten, any business or entity that violates the order faces a misdemeanor and a fine of  $1,000 dollars.
  County officials said they need to step up contact tracing efforts and crack down on egregious violators. They’ve issued multiple letters to local businesses, including gyms and restaurants.
  The facility did not immediately respond to a CNN request for comment.
  San Diego County has reported a total of 28,287 Covid-19 cases and 552 deaths.
   
  At least 124 new cases of coronavirus were reported in Hawaii on Thursday. 
  That's a 14% increase over the previous record high set Wednesday and is the state’s fifth record day in the past week.
  Government officials in Hawaii are considering rolling back part of their reopening plans to respond to the surge. Honolulu Mayor Kirk Caldwell said Wednesday he wanted to close all bars on the island of Oahu for three weeks because some recent Covid-19 clusters have been traced to bars. 
  The proposal is awaiting Gov. David Ige's approval.
  
  
  President Trump said he supports a “temporary extension of unemployment benefits” and slammed Democrats as negotiations on a relief bill remain deadlocked. 
  Asked what the White House is willing to put on the table to move negotiations Trump said, “It’s a great question. I can’t tell you though because that wouldn’t be very smart for me from a negotiating standpoint but we’ll be putting certain things on the table.”
  Trump added that he wants to “get money to people” saying that it wasn’t the fault of American workers but “China’s fault.”  
  Trump also slammed what he called “Democratic obstruction” which he said he was “surprised” by but said he wanted Democrats’ help to temporarily stop evictions. 
  “We want to get money to people. It wasn’t their fault. And we want to get money to people and it has to be substantial. It’s not their fault what happened. The fact is, people don’t like saying it- they know it’s true- it’s China’s fault. Okay? It’s not their fault. It’s not the worker who lost his job. It’s China’s fault. And that’s the way it is,” Trump said. 
  
  Watch here: 
  
  
  The University of Washington now projects there will be 230,822 US deaths from Covid-19 by November, based on the current scenario.   
  On July 22, the university’s Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) forecasted 219,864 total deaths from the virus by November. 
  The latest update reflects an increase of about 11,000 deaths due to an increase in infections and the refusal by some people to wear masks, to practice social distancing, and to perform other measures to mitigate the transmission of the virus.
  If the US universally adopted wearing masks, the number of deaths by November would drop to nearly 198,831, the model projected. The use of masks is up but not as high as it should be across the nations. However, there has been a rise in mask wearing across states and locations with increased cases and deaths, the IHME said.
  Some context:  So far, according to Johns Hopkins University, more than 4.47 million Americans have been diagnosed with coronavirus infections and at least 151,674 have died. 
  "We would like for Americans to keep their guard up to reduce the transmission of the virus. We do not have an effective drug and vaccines are on their way, so prevention is key." Mokdad told CNN. 
   
  
  
  Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis advocated Thursday for parents to be able to choose either in-person or distance learning as districts in the state weigh their options for the upcoming school year.
  “I believe that there should be a choice for parents throughout Florida,” DeSantis said at a news conference.
  DeSantis cited the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention as he said “kids under 18 are far less likely to be hospitalized or to die from Covid-19 than they are from seasonal influenza.” 
  The CDC released guidelines last Thursday that pushed for schools to reopen and pointed to studies showing that children are not at high risk of severe symptoms from coronavirus, as well as to studies showing younger children may not be important vectors for the spread of the virus.
  “We cannot be the generation that deprives our children of the opportunity to live up to their God-given potential,” DeSantis said.
  However, Dr. Anthony Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said last Friday that “there's still a lot to learn about what the prevalence and incidence of infection is in children.” 
  
  
  Connecticut has seen a notable increase in coronavirus rates among 10 to 19 year olds, Gov. Ned Lamont said at a news conference on Thursday.
  He said the rates have “doubled.” 
  Lamont blamed the spike on kids drinking and partying, and cited the potential risks to other families and teachers, if or when kids return to school. He went on to say that parents need to make sure their children are following safe protocols.
  "The power of shame is greater than anything I can do by edict or punishment," the governor said.
  On schools:  Lamont also said he is leaving it up to school districts to determine what they want to do with respect to in-person or hybridized learning, with a likely emphasis on more in-person schooling for younger kids. 
  Any school or district that wishes to opt out of any in-person schooling will have to present its case before the education commissioner, he said.
  Lamont said there have been at least six new deaths since the last update and approximately 13 new hospitalizations. 
  Brazil's health ministry reported 57,837 new cases of coronavirus Thursday, bringing the country's total to 2,610,102.
  The ministry also reported 1,129 new deaths from the virus, bringing Brazil's death toll to 91,263.
  Some context:  This new data was released after President Jair Bolsonaro's press office announced today that Brazil’s first lady, Michelle Bolsonaro, tested positive for Covid-19. 
  On Saturday, the president tested negative after several positive tests.
  
  
  White House chief of staff Mark Meadows told reporters Thursday he is “not very optimistic that we will have any kind of an agreement on a comprehensive bill in the near future."
  Asked to clarify what he meant by near future, he replied, “I’m not even optimistic about next week.”
  Meadows talked with reporters for more than 20 minutes at the US Capitol Thursday amid stalled negotiations over the next stimulus bill, as senators left for the weekend and federal unemployment benefits expire tomorrow.
  
  Watch here: 
  
  
  
  
  President Trump said shutting down the economy "to achieve a temporary reduction in cases is certainly not a viable long-term strategy for any country" as coronavirus continues to spread across the country.
  "The scientific path forward is to protect those at highest risk while allowing those at lower risk to carefully return to work and to school with appropriate precautions," he said at a news briefing on Thursday.
  He said the purpose of the shutdown was to flatten the curve and to develop treatments and therapies. 
  "We have done that," Trump said, but warned the virus "can come rearing back when you least suspect it."
  Trump said moving forward, it is important to protect elderly people and those with health conditions that put them at higher risk for complications.
  "You want to protect the elderly and socially distance. Wear a mask if you cannot socially distance and practice vigorous hygiene. Everyone – even healthy young people – should be taking extraordinary care to avoid infecting those at the highest risk from this terrible disease," he said.
  
  Watch here: 
  
 