Mark Murray 
  WASHINGTON — As Vermont Independent Sen. Bernie Sanders suspended his presidential campaign Wednesday his ultimate downfall was that he never expanded beyond his progressive base.
  In fact, he ended up underperforming from 2016.
  That explains how he went from the  frontrunner in a still-crowded race  of Democratic candidates in February, to someone who couldn't win a single county in  Michigan  or  Florida  when the field whittled down a month later.
  And while Sanders had to navigate a much larger field of viable candidates in 2020 than he did four years ago, his vote percentages underscore his difficulty in holding onto a sizable number of 2016 supporters who left his camp for other candidates.  
  Consider:
  In  Iowa's caucuses , the first Democratic contest, Sanders ended up getting 25 percent of the popular vote and 26 percent of the state delegate equivalents — down from 49.6 percent in  2016 .
  In the New Hampshire primary,  the second contest , the Vermont senator won the state with another 26 percent of the vote —  down from 60 percent -plus four years ago.
  Sanders'  best showing  came in the next nominating race, Nevada, where he got 47 percent of the state delegate equivalents in a field that continued to have six major Democratic candidates (not including former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who didn't compete in Nevada).
  But after that came another underperformance in South Carolina in late February, when those same six candidates were in the race: He garnered  just about 20 percent  (was  26 percent in 2016 ) of the vote.
  And then on Super Tuesday — after Minnesota  Sen. Amy Klobuchar  and former South Bend, Ind. Mayor Pete Buttigieg had  dropped out of the race  and endorsed former Vice President Joe Biden — the trend continued:
  And then after it became a two-person race when  Bloomberg  and Massachusetts Sen.  Elizabeth Warren  dropped out:
  After Sanders' exit from the 2020 race on Wednesday, President Trump was blaming Elizabeth Warren for the Vermont senator’s defeat.
  Bernie Sanders is OUT! Thank you to Elizabeth Warren. If not for her, Bernie would have won almost every state on Super Tuesday! This ended just like the Democrats & the DNC wanted, same as the Crooked Hillary fiasco. The Bernie people should come to the Republican Party, TRADE!
  But as the numbers show above, Sanders' problem wasn't Warren. Instead, it was his inability to expand beyond his diehard supporters from 2016 — before and after Warren dropped out of the 2020 race.
 