Good morning and welcome to  Fox News First .  Here's what you need to know as you start your day ...
  Coronavirus 2.0? Coronavirus could have a deadlier second wave later this year, CDC director warns 
A second wave of coronavirus could coincide with the start of flu season, proving to be even more devastating than the enduring COVID-19 pandemic, the head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) warned Tuesday.
  Americans should continue to practice social distancing to mitigate the spread of the virus -- even as some states attempt to reopen their economies in the coming week, CDC Director Robert Redfield told The Washington Post.
  Social distancing has had “an enormous impact" on containing the outbreak but Americans need to plan ahead and consider getting a flu shot in the summer so that when winter comes, hospitals are not once again overburdened, Redfield said.  Click here for more on our top story . 
  Other related developments:  - To get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox,  sign up here . 
- Coronavirus has  mutated into at least 30 different strains , study finds 
- Calif. county may have  traced earliest US coronavirus deaths 
  Trump launches new defense of protesters demanding states reopen their economies: 'They want to get back to work' 
President Trump on Tuesday defended protesters who have turned up at state capitols and outside governors' mansions to demand the reopening of businesses to jumpstart a fractured economy crippled by business closures and massive layoffs.
  "They want to get back to work," Trump told reporters during his daily coronavirus task force briefing at the White House. "They have to take care of their families. They don't want to do this."
  Protests have cropped up in several states in recent weeks with participants demanding an end to state lockdown orders that are forcing many to stay indoors, and the immediate reopening of businesses to aid those out of work.  Click here for more .  
  
Other coronavirus developments: 
- 'Squad' member Pressley says  Trump coronavirus response 'akin to war crimes' 
- COVID-19 treatment  hydroxychloroquine showed no benefit, more deaths  in VA virus study 
- Coronavirus in the US:  State-by-state breakdown 
  Trump says he'll ask Harvard to return coronavirus relief money 
President Trump accused Harvard University of "taking" money from the federal government as part of the Paycheck Protection Program under the CARES Act, intended to benefit small businesses and said he will be asking the Ivy League school to pay it back.
  “Harvard is going to pay back the money. They shouldn’t be taking it,” Trump said Tuesday as the White House came under scrutiny after a number of large businesses received money from the $350 billion relief fund, leaving small businesses out as the coffers ran dry last week.
  “I’m not going to mention any other names, but when I saw Harvard — they have one of the largest endowments anywhere in the country, maybe in the world. They’re going to pay back the money,” he added.  Click here for more .  
  Other developments: 
- Senate passes  $484B 'Phase 3.5' coronavirus stimulus package 
-  Rand Paul speaks out  against $500B rescue package 
- Coronavirus:  What you need to know 
  CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP 
  TODAY'S MUST-READS America Together:  Send us your photos  and we'll tell your story as the nation battles coronavirus . 
In the battle against coronavirus,  3D-printed nasal swabs  enter the health care arsenal. 
Mo. attorney general says state is  first to file suit against China over coronavirus . 
Ga. governor  defends plan to reopen gyms, nail salons , says state 'taking a measured step.' 
Iran says it  launched first military satellite  amid US tensions.
  THE LATEST FROM FOX BUSINESS Global CEOs see U-shaped recession  due to coronavirus. 
Richard Branson  fights to save travel, tourism empire .  
Can companies be  liable for coronavirus when employees return to work ?
  #TheFlashback:  CLICK HERE  to find out what happened on "This Day in History." 
  SOME PARTING WORDS 
  Tucker Carlson says Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer wants residents to be quiet and subservient in the coronavirus crisis so they won't interfere with her efforts to merge the state's government with the Democratic Party.
  Not signed up yet for Fox News First?  Click here  to find out what you're missing. 
  Click here  to find out what's on Fox News and Fox News Radio today! 
  
Fox News First is compiled by Fox News' Bryan Robinson. Thank you for making us your first choice in the morning! Stay safe, stay healthy and try to stay positive  -- we will get through this coronavirus pandemic together. We'll see you in your inbox first thing Thursday morning. 
 