Leigh Ann Caldwell and Kristen Welker
  WASHINGTON — Senate Democrats laid bare their frustrations about the lack of widespread testing in the U.S. during a teleconference with Vice President Mike Pence and the Coronavirus Task Force Friday afternoon, multiple sources tell NBC News.
  At one point during the call, Maine Sen. Angus King, an Independent who caucuses with the Democrats, said he has “never been so mad about a phone call in my life,” adding that the administration’s lack of national testing is “a dereliction  of duty,” according to three of the sources. 
  This is the second phone call in two days that Democrats peppered the administration officials about testing. A bipartisan congressional task force to reopen the country pressed President Donald Trump about the issue of testing on  two phone calls Thursday .
  Meanwhile, three senior administration officials tell NBC News that Friday night’s White House briefing will focus primarily on testing. Task force officials are expected to say they are confident there is enough testing available to implement the first phase of the administration’s plan to reopen the country, according to one official.  
  The focus on testing comes as the administration is  under fire  for releasing its plans to open the economy in phases without having a nationwide testing and contact tracing program in place.
  At the end of Friday's call, Sen. Tim Kaine, D-Va., brought up the president’s  “Liberate”  Virginia, Michigan and Minnesota tweets, according to two sources familiar.
  A Democratic aide said that Pence attempted to talk about how the administration is working respectfully with the governors but Kaine said those tweets “are not at all respectful.”
  Another source familiar said that Pence’s response was that “the president is an effective communicator” and speaks with the American people in “a transparent and effective way.”
  In addition to Pence, Dr. Fauci, Dr. Birx, Admiral Brett Giroir and other members of the task force were on the call offered for all Democratic senators. It’s the second call Pence and the task force have  had with Senate Democrats in as many weeks.
  Julie Tsirkin, Peter Alexander and Carol E. Lee contributed. 
 