After several days of being unsure how they would get  home, 103 passengers from a Silversea Cruises cruise ship were flown home from Brazil, President Donald Trump said Monday.
  USA TODAY has reached out to Silversea Cruises' parent company, Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines, to get more details on the evacuation and confirm whether all of the Silver Shadow's American passengers are now back in the United States.  
  Trump mentioned the ship's ordeal during Monday's press briefing on the coronavirus crisis, telling reporters, "Overnight, we successfully brought home 103 American citizens after they had been stranded for 10 days in Brazil following a cruise."
  As the coronavirus spread, the Silver Shadow was one of several cruise ships that became marooned at sea or in ports due to sick passengers or crew or local governments that wouldn't let them dock out of fear they might be carrying infected people.
  Those fears aren't always unjustified:  Royal Caribbean said that two passengers aboard the Silver Shadow had been  "medically disembarked"  in Recife as of March 16. One tested positive for COVID-19 and the other tested negative. 
  According to the ship-tracking site  Cruise Mapper , the Silver Shadow remains in Recife, Brazil, where it was scheduled to make a port call on March 12. According to the ship-tracking site, it had been scheduled to visit Barbados, Grenada, Martinique, Antigua and Puerto Rico before returning to Port Everglades, Florida, for disembarkation.
  The rapidly spreading virus has put Silversea and several other cruise lines in the the difficult position of trying to secure a new port that would allow them to unload their remaining passengers and transport them to a local airport to begin their trips home.
  The Silver Shadow's passengers aren't alone: thousands of Americans have found themselves in limbo amid the global freeze on international travel as the novel coronavirus spread across the globe. Many of these stranded travelers  say the State Department and its embassies have offered little to no assistance .
  USA TODAY has reached out to the U.S. State Department for comment. 
  However, a senior State Department official indicated that the agency has been inundated with such pleas, telling reporters that as of Monday, it has received requests for assistance from more than 13,000 Americans stranded abroad.
  "We are encouraging people ... to avail themselves of commercial means (to get back to the U.S.) while they still exist," said the senior State Department official, who briefed reporters on the condition of anonymity. "But that window is closing fast."
  There's no guarantee, he said, the U.S. government will be able to get every American home, particularly those stuck in hard-to-reach locations.
  "I'm hesitant to give a guarantee we can move every single person," the official said.  
  For those Americans who can't get commercial flights, he said, they need to register with the State Department's  Smart Traveler Enrollment Program , called STEP. 
  "The only way we're going to find somebody is if they've registered with us in STEP and provided pretty detailed information about who they are, how to get in touch with them, etc.," the official said.
  As of Tuesday morning, approximately 7.1%, or about 20 of the Cruise Lines International Association's 277 member ships were still at sea and in the process of wrapping up current voyages. The percentage of ships still in transit is down from 14% (or around 39 ships) Thursday.
  "This is a highly fluid situation, with numbers changing by the hour as cruise ships around the world are completing their voyages," Bari Golin-Blaugrund, senior director of strategic communications at Cruise Lines International Association, the industry's leading trade organization, told USA TODAY on Thursday. 
  "The vast majority of the rest are either at port, anchored or repositioning," Golin-Blaugrund said. "CLIA members are focused on the safe and smooth return home of those onboard cruise ships that are currently at sea."
  Silversea and Royal Caribbean are  members of CLIA , which  announced March 14  that its members would suspend sailing operations to and from U.S. ports for 30 days due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Other member lines include Carnival, Royal Caribbean, Norwegian and Celebrity.
  More: Troubled cruise ship docks in Honolul u
  More: Carnival CEO defends coronavirus response, says 'a cruise ship is not a riskier environment' 
  Contributing: Deirdre Shesgreen, USA TODAY 
 