California has declared an emergency over the coronavirus outbreak, as   that has been linked to two cases of the illness in the state.
  The first death in California related to coronavirus was confirmed Wednesday, while another fatality in Washington brought that state's death toll to 10.
  Congressional leaders have agreed on   to help fight the coronavirus that is headed to the House.
  The virus is now spreading more rapidly outside China, where the epidemic started, with mainland China recording just 119 new confirmed cases while hundreds of cases were reported globally.
  South Korea alone recorded an additional 516 cases of coronavirus Wednesday, bringing the total to 5,328 confirmed cases, the largest outbreak outside of mainland China.
  Governments around the world are introducing a range of measures to stop the spread of the disease. In Italy, where there have been more than 2,000 cases, all schools and colleges are shut for 10 days.
  
  
  
  Jo Ling Kent
  The annual festival of media, film and music in Austin, Texas, is "proceeding as planned," a spokesperson said. The festival is slated to run from March 13 to March 22.
  "Safety is a top priority for SXSW, and we work closely with local, state, and federal agencies year-round to plan for a safe event," the spokesperson said. "Where travel has been impacted, especially in the case of China, we are seeing a handful of cancellations. However, we are on par with years past in regard to registrants who are unable to attend."
  The spokesperson added that SXSW organizers were ramping up efforts to halt the spread of the virus according to Austin's public health recommendations.
  Daniel Arkin
  "We're working with our suppliers to meet customer demand for these products," the pharmacy chain said in a statement.
  "This demand may cause temporary shortages at some store locations and we re-supply those stores as quickly as possible."
  Daniel Arkin
  Both of the coronavirus patients from Illinois have made a "full recovery," the state's governor said in a news release.
  "The immediate health risk to the state remains low," Gov. J.B. Pritzker's office said.
  Reuters
  Roman Catholic authorities in Jerusalem have instructed their priests to give communion by hand only, rather than placing the wafers on worshippers' tongues, and to empty holy water fonts — both as precautions against the spread of the coronavirus.
  The Latin Patriarchate of Jerusalem announced the measures on Thursday, shortly after the start of Lent, the 40-day season leading up to Easter. Millions of pilgrims frequent Jerusalem and other holy cities such as Nazareth and Bethlehem each year.
  Priscilla Thompson
  Pete Buttigieg, campaigning in South Carolina, highlighted the coronavirus as an example of the type of high-level national security issue that will await the next president.
  The former mayor of South Bend, Indiana, then appeared to criticize President Trump, saying: "This virus does not care what country it is in. It's not going to be stopped by a big wall."
  Ken Dilanian
  The U.S. intelligence community has failed to anticipate some big developments, from the disintegration of the Soviet Union to the rapid rise of ISIS.
  But the spies did forecast something like  .
  For years, American intelligence agencies have been warning about the increasing risks of a global pandemic that could strain resources and damage the global economy.
  
  Daniel Arkin
  Sen. Bernie Sanders, campaigning in South Carolina ahead of the Democratic primary there, slammed President Trump for coming down to the state for a Friday evening rally amid the outbreak. Gary Grumbach, one of our campaign embeds, is with the Sanders campaign today:
  Sen.   is not thrilled   is coming down to Charleston tonight for a   Rally. “Hey Mr. Trump, why don't you worry about the coronavirus rather than disrupting the democratic primary right here in South Carolina,” he said in St. George.  
  Lucy Bayly
  The White House is not ruling out suspending trade tariffs on China in the face of the viral outbreak, National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow said Friday, noting that he and President Donald Trump have had "discussions" on the matter.
  "We do not have any precipitous actions planned right now," Kudlow told reporters at a press briefing.
  He also reinforced the administration's position that the U.S. economy is strong enough to withstand any hit from the epidemic, noting that “our threat assessment is low and the economy is fundamentally sound.”
  Kudlow also categorized the historic week on Wall Street as overreaction, and said the U.S. had withstood worse. "I don't think this stock market plunge is going to have any long-term effect," he said, though he did caution, "It depends how long this lasts and how deep it goes."
 