About a month ago, for reasons that were far from clear, Donald Trump promoted a curious report about the coronavirus. Pointing to an article on a right-wing website, the president  signaled  to the public that Johnson & Johnson was in the process of creating a coronavirus vaccine.
  And while that certainly sounded encouraging, it wasn't quite right. While Johnson & Johnson is one of several companies that are working on a possible vaccine, human trials are  nowhere close .
  This morning, Trump  told reporters  in India, "[W]e are very close to a vaccine," only to have White House officials  clarify  soon after that he wasn't talking about the coronavirus. At the same press conference, Trump  insisted  that the United States is "probably" down to 10 confirmed cases of the coronavirus, which was also wrong. (Just last week, the Trump administration brought 14 coronavirus-infected Americans  to U.S. soil , despite objections from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.)
  It's against this backdrop that Vox's Matt Yglesias  noted  that this seems like a good time to question Team Trump's competence when it comes to dealing with the virus outbreak.
  This is hardly an outlandish assessment. On the show last night, Rachel highlighted  this   Foreign Policy  piece from a month ago, which said the United States "has never been less prepared for a pandemic." The article added:
  A  New York Times   report  added, "Democrats ... have expressed concerns about the administration's ability to respond if there were a severe coronavirus outbreak in the United States, noting that a global health security expert position on the National Security Council has been left vacant for almost two years."
  Of course, given the circumstances, Democrats aren't the only ones raising concerns.
  As for budget considerations, let's also not forget that the White House budget proposed  deep cuts  to global health programs and the National Institutes of Health, and while administration officials yesterday made a  new request  for funds related specifically to the coronavirus outbreak, many lawmakers were quick to note the appeal was both late and inadequate.
  Trump and his team have confronted years of questions about their competence and ability to tackle routine governmental tasks. Occasionally, those concerns are especially acute.
 