Montgomery:  Bidding to stop the new coronavirus, public health officials in the state’s largest county ordered restaurants to switch to takeout service only and ordered child care centers closed and nursing home visits restricted. Jefferson County Health Officer Mark Wilson announced the orders at a news conference Monday. Seventeen of the  29 confirmed virus cases in Alabama  have been detected in Jefferson County, which includes the city of Birmingham. Wilson said child care centers, preschools and private school centers with 12 or more students are to close from Thursday until April  6. Restaurants beginning Tuesday should not have on-site dining for one week, but delivery and takeout can continue. The orders also call for the closure of senior citizen center activities and for nursing homes to restrict visitation except for compassionate situations such as end of life. The order prohibits public gatherings with more than 25 people. 
  Juneau:  The mayor signed an order Monday closing gyms and entertainment venues and barring restaurants, bars and other establishments from offering dine-in service to the public through the rest of March amid concerns over the new coronavirus. The order, signed by Mayor Ethan Berkowitz, also would close self-serve buffets and salad bars. The order would not apply to drive-thrus or takeout or delivery services. Grocery stores would remain open, according to a release from his office. Entertainment venues, which his office said includes theaters, gyms and bingo halls, will be closed through March  31 as well. Gatherings of at least 50 people in Anchorage also will be prohibited, though the order says this does not apply to the day-to-day operations of organizations such as businesses, universities or day cares that are not already subject to closure. “By making sacrifices now, we reduce the likelihood that we will pay a larger cost later,” Berkowitz said in a release. Gov. Mike Dunleavy said he has not yet felt the need to enact such restrictions statewide. 
  Phoenix:  Attorneys representing the 34,000 inmates in Arizona’s prisons asked a judge Monday to order the state to develop an adequate plan for confronting the new coronavirus behind bars, arguing housing conditions and the state’s lack of preparation put the lives of older prisoners with chronic illnesses at risk. The lawyers said they saw medically fragile inmates crowded in dirty and unventilated dorms and tents during a visit last week at the Arizona State Prison Complex in Florence. They said corrections officials and the state’s health care provider for prisoners “had no articulable plan for managing and preventing the spread of the virus.” The Department of Corrections, Reentry and Rehabilitation said it has taken steps to reduce the potential spread of the virus, such as suspending visitation for at least 30 days and suspending a $4 copayment on inmates who seek medical help for cold and flu symptoms.
  Little Rock:  The city is imposing more restrictions, including a curfew, in an effort to curb the spread of the new coronavirus as the number of infections in the state continues to rise. Mayor Frank Scott said Monday that a curfew from midnight to 5  a.m. will be in effect in Little Rock beginning early Wednesday. “This decision we did not take lightly at all,” Scott said. The curfew will not apply to people traveling to or from work, and police won’t stop vehicles for breaking the curfew, Scott said. The mayor made the announcement shortly after the state Department of Health announced that the number of coronavirus cases in Arkansas had risen by six to 22. Two of the new infections were found in people from who live in Cleburne County but had traveled out of state to a conference, health officials said. The other four contracted it in a health care setting. Meanwhile, two more casinos – Southland Casino Racing, a West Memphis dog track, and Saracen Casino Resort in Pine Bluff – are closing temporarily because of concerns about the virus. 
  Encinitas:  Disturbed by empty store shelves and reports of hoarding during the coronavirus crisis, a man stood on a Southern California street corner and held up a homemade cardboard sign with a simple request: “Share your toilet paper.” Jonny Blue told the San Diego Union-Tribune the response to his impromptu toilet paper exchange in Encinitas was immediate and positive. Drivers honked horns in support and stopped to drop off rolls of toilet paper. Just as quickly, Blue would hand rolls to those in need. Blue, a physical therapist, said he planned to head out to the corner again to “encourage people to be better” amid the global pandemic. Blue gave a few rolls to a grateful motorist who said he came up empty at several stores. “He was like, ‘Do you want me to pay you?’ I said, ‘No, man. Somebody gave it to me. Take it.’  ” The 33-year-old told the newspaper he made his sign after a friend had a difficult time finding diapers and essential supplies for his kids. “I think people want a sense of community,” Blue said. “When things are really challenging, people are looking to band together and be unified.” 
  Denver:  The state’s 12,000 bars and restaurants are limited to takeout and delivery orders under a ban on gatherings of 50 people as the state expands testing to try to brake the spread of the coronavirus, Gov. Jared Polis said Monday. Polis also announced the closure of all theaters, gyms and casinos until further notice. The restaurant-bar measure will affect 240,000 workers and last at least 30 days, he said, calling it a tough but necessary step to fight a pandemic that has likely infected thousands in Colorado. At least 160 people had tested positive for the coronavirus as of Monday, and 20 were hospitalized, Polis said. The greatest challenge, he said, was in chasing a virus where the latest information, based on tests, is always three to five days old. Mayor Michael Hancock said people arrested for low-level crimes will no longer be booked into jail, and social distancing would be increased behind bars. To keep people in homes, sheriff’s deputies will not enforce eviction notices during the crisis, and the city is also negotiating with hotels to house homeless people, prioritizing those who have significant respiratory problems.
  Hartford:  About 200 employees of a health care system that includes seven hospitals in Connecticut and New York are staying home because they may have come into contact with the coronavirus, according to Gov. Ned Lamont. He said the workers are with Nuvance Health, whose system includes Danbury Hospital, where the first Connecticut resident who tested positive for COVID-19 was treated. The Democratic governor said Monday night that the situation shows the need for a large increase in testing. Nuvance Health said in a statement Tuesday that “the number of people furloughed is evolving as some early furloughs are now safely returning to work.” It said testing for those who meet criteria is continuing. Lamont said on MSNBC that Danbury Hospital was at capacity, but Nuvance officials said that was not the case.
  Smyrna:  Gov. John Carney has directed restaurants and bars to restrict their operations to takeout, drive-thru and delivery services. A revision of an emergency declaration Carney issued last week also gives Delaware’s secretary of labor authorization to develop emergency rules to ensure unemployment benefits are available for Delawareans whose jobs are affected by the outbreak. It also directs organizers and sponsors of public gatherings of 50 or more people to cancel them immediately and halts gaming operations at casinos. Also Monday, public health officials confirmed the state’s eighth case of coronavirus, a day after U.S. Sen. Tom Carper’s office announced a member of his Delaware-based staff had tested positive for COVID-19. Meanwhile, Carney got a firsthand look at how Delaware is monitoring and responding to the spread of the coronavirus during a tour Monday of the State Health Operations Center in Smyrna. “I was just really impressed as I walked around here with the diligence and focus of our team,” he said. State laboratory director Dr. Sergio Huerta told Carney that Delaware officials were “ahead of the game.”
  Washington:  Mayor Muriel Bowser has ordered bars and some restaurants in the district closed,  WUSA-TV reports . Drive-thru, carryout, takeout and food delivery remain available throughout the city. Specific businesses affected by Bowser’s announcement were to close doors by 10  p.m. Monday. Bowser’s decision to shut down businesses was part of an effort to limit day-to-day interactions and to encourage social distancing in order to stop the spread of coronavirus. “We all have a role to play,” Bowser said. She spoke about “flattening the curve” through social distancing during a news conference Monday. “Let me be clear about why social distancing is so important. When we slow the spread of COVID-19, we protect our hospitals from getting overwhelmed. We are able to keep more hospital beds open and make better use of limited resources,” Bowser said. 
  Fort Lauderdale:  Gov. Ron DeSantis ordered all bars and nightclubs closed for 30 days starting at 5  p.m. Tuesday, upending St. Patrick’s Day revelries as the state acts more aggressively to contain a new strain of coronavirus that has infected more than 170 people in Florida, killing five. He also said he’s asking Florida’s university board of governors to require students to return home for remote learning for the rest of the spring semester. The governor also announced that restaurants must limit their number of patrons to maintain safe distances between diners. Under the governor’s order, restaurants can only operate at half-capacity. Up until now, DeSantis has mostly refrained from issuing mandates and allowed localities to use their own judgment on how to limit public activities. Many beaches in Florida, including Miami Beach, Fort Lauderdale Beach and Hollywood Beach, have closed to spring break crowds. But some have stayed open: Beaches in Clearwater, on Florida’s Gulf Coast, were packed with spring breakers Monday afternoon. 
  Atlanta:  Gov. Brian Kemp on Monday ordered public schools and colleges closed from Wednesday until at least March  31, after lawmakers ratified his weekend emergency declaration to fight the new coronavirus. Public schools serving more than 1.7  million of Georgia’s 1.8  million students had already closed, although some mostly in rural areas had remained open. Most schools say they hope to continue delivering lessons online. The state university system announced its 26 public colleges and universities would shift all classes online for the remainder of the spring semester, “with extremely limited exceptions.” Students can’t return to campus without their college’s permission, the University System of Georgia said, and dorms will be closed except for students unable to return home. Kemp’s move came as the number of cases continues to rise, with the Georgia Public Health Department reporting 121 cases at noon Monday, up from 99 on Sunday. 
  Honolulu:  State lawmakers on Monday voted to indefinitely suspend the current legislative session to prevent the spread of the new coronavirus. The announcement came as Honolulu reported Hawaii’s first case of an individual testing positive for the disease without having traveled out of state. The House and Senate both voted for resolutions calling for a recess effective Tuesday after the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued guidelines to restrict gatherings of more than 50 people for the next eight weeks. “This is an unprecedented situation. We are having to monitor events not by the day but practically by the hour,” House Speaker Scott Saiki told reporters at a news conference. He said members of the public feel the need to attend hearings as bills move through the legislative process, and lawmakers didn’t want people to have to compromise their safety by attending.
  Boise:  State health officials say two more people have tested positive for COVID-19, bringing the total number of residents known to be infected with the coronavirus to seven. One of the cases announced Tuesday was in a woman under the age of 50 in the Ada County region, and the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare said she had no known interactions with the other two cases previously identified in the area. Still, officials believed her case was likely travel-related and said she had mild symptoms and was recovering at home in isolation. The other case was in the South Central Public Health region, in a woman over 50. Investigators are still trying to determine how she contracted the illness but said she was also recovering well at home. Officials did not release where in the region the patient was from. She’s the third person in the district diagnosed with COVID-19. Idaho’s other known case is in eastern Idaho’s Teton County.
  Chicago:  Election workers were delivering hand sanitizer at polling places Tuesday as the state’s presidential primary got underway amid a global pandemic. State officials declined to postpone the election despite concerns about low turnout during the COVID-19 outbreak. Gov. J.B. Pritzker, who has ordered schools, restaurants and bars closed due to the virus, said Sunday that “we have to elect leaders, even in less than ideal circumstances.” Cook County Clerk Karen Yarbrough said shortly after the polls opened that she had heard of no immediate problems at the county’s polling sites and expected “things to go well.” There were some signs of early confusion, though. Timna Axel, director of communications for the Chicago Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights, said voters had been calling the group’s hotline all morning to get help finding their polling places. Election authorities around the state scrambled to find alternate locations as nursing homes and other typical polling sites backed out amid concern about the coronavirus. The steady flow of calls – including from some polling place workers – is “unusual for a primary,” Axel said.
  Indianapolis:  A second person has died in a coronavirus-related death, state health officials announced Tuesday. The person, who was older than 60 and had been hospitalized, was from Johnson County, just south of Indianapolis, according to the Indiana State Department of Health. That announcement came after Indiana recorded its first COVID-19 death Monday, when an Indianapolis resident died. The health department on Tuesday reported six additional confirmed COVID-19 illnesses, giving the state 30 cases across 15 counties. State officials acknowledge that likely thousands of people are infected by the virus and that testing is largely being done on those with serious symptoms or known exposure to others infected. Indiana’s Roman Catholic bishops on Tuesday said they were suspending all public Sunday and weekday Masses starting Wednesday until further notice. The bishops cited the recommendations of health officials, who have asked for no public gatherings of more than 50 people.
  Des Moines:  Gov. Kim Reynolds on Tuesday ordered restaurants, bars, fitness centers, theaters and casinos to close for two weeks as part of a public health emergency plan designed to reduce the community spread of coronavirus. Reynolds’ proclamation prohibits social, community, spiritual, religious, recreational, leisure and sporting gatherings. It also bans events of more than 10 people including parades, festivals, conventions and fundraisers, in line with federal recommendations. Senior citizen centers and adult day care facilities were closed. “These are unprecedented times and the state of Iowa will do whatever is necessary to address this public health disaster,” Reynolds said in a statement. “The actions taken today are necessary to protect the health and safety of all Iowans and are critical to mitigating the spread of the virus.” Iowa had 23 positive cases as of Tuesday morning.
  Topeka:  The state has at least 14 confirmed cases of the coronavirus as the fallout from the pandemic continues to spread, officials said Tuesday. Ford County health officials reported their first case, and Johnson County reported two more, bringing the total in the state’s most populous county to 10. Franklin, Butler and Wyandotte counties also have each recorded a case. After a Kansas House panel approved a bill to give laid-off workers another 10 weeks of unemployment benefits, the chamber canceled all of its remaining committee meetings until further notice. It also sent office assistants home. Also Tuesday, Kansas lottery officials announced the four state-owned casinos will close at the end of the day Tuesday until at least March  30. That comes after two of the state’s major universities announced Monday that they will move to all remote classes and not hold scheduled graduation ceremonies. 
  Louisville:  The Kentucky Derby was postponed until September on Tuesday, the latest rite of spring in sports to be struck by the new coronavirus. The Derby, America’s longest continuously held sports event, had been scheduled for May  2. It will now be run Sept.  5, kicking off Labor Day weekend. “We’ll roll with the punches and feel very, very good that September is the right date,” Bill Carstanjen, CEO of Churchill Downs Inc., said on a conference call. It’s the first time the Derby won’t be held on its traditional first Saturday in May since 1945, when it was run June  9. The federal government suspended horse racing nationwide for most of the first half of the year before World War II ended in early May, but not in time to hold the first leg of the Triple Crown that month. The date change still must be approved by the Kentucky Horse Racing Commission at its meeting Thursday. 
  New Orleans:  A dozen residents of a retirement home are now infected by the coronavirus, which has proven more lethal for older people than other age groups, the governor said. One of Louisiana’s four deaths from COVID-19 was an 84-year-old resident of the Lambeth House retirement home in New Orleans, Gov. John Bel Edwards said. Dr. Jennifer Avegno, leader of the city health department, stressed that the virus was spreading much faster in New Orleans than in other U.S. cities. “This is a rapidly changing situation,” she said. “There is substantial community spread.” The governor has ordered bars, gyms and movie theaters to close and limited restaurants to delivery and takeout. The number of positive tests for the virus in Louisiana reached 171 by Tuesday, according to the state health department’s latest figures. The fourth death in the state was reported Tuesday.
  Augusta:  More than 30 people have tested positive for the coronavirus across seven counties in the state, officials said Tuesday. Dr. Nirav Shah, director of the Maine Center for Disease Control and Prevention, said the number will likely grow, and he encouraged people not to panic. “Panic is a paralytic. It can cloud your mind and cause you to focus on things that are not your top priorities,” he said. One of the new cases is a child under 10 in Andrscoggin County, Shah said. For now, he said there’s evidence of community spread only in Cumberland County. The announcement by the Maine CDC came as the Legislature convened to consider an omnibus bill related to the coronavirus and a supplemental budget bill that includes spending to fight the virus.
  Annapolis:  Gov. Larry Hogan postponed the state’s April  28 primary to June  2 on Tuesday, but the state is moving forward with a vote-by-mail special general election April  28 to fill the congressional seat that was left vacant by the death of Elijah Cummings. The Republican governor said his two main priorities are keeping Marylanders safe and protecting their constitutional right to vote. Hogan said Maryland has confirmed 57 cases of the coronavirus, a 54% increase from the day before. “It would endanger public health to allow thousands of people to assembly in places like schools and senior centers, which are already closed under the state of emergency, and it would put Marylanders at risk, especially the poll workers and election judges, most of whom are retirees and in the most vulnerable population,” Hogan said at a news conference. He said a mail-in vote for the entire state could not be done, “but we didn’t want to have people without representation for that long in that district.” 
  Boston:  Biogen Inc., the Massachusetts biotech company linked to a cluster of COVID-19 cases stemming from a meeting last month at a Boston hotel, is donating $10  million to fight the pandemic. “This donation will be used to help expand testing options, ease the strain on medical systems, provide training for front line health workers and support access to necessities like food,” the Cambridge-based company said in a statement. The money, donated through the Biogen Foundation, is designed to help nonprofits in Massachusetts and North Carolina, as well as Italy and other countries affected by the pandemic, the company said. There have been about 200 cases of COVID-19 in Massachusetts, about half of which have been linked to the Feb.  26-27 conference. The company has also provided medical equipment and supplies to Partners HealthCare, the state’s largest hospital and health care organization, to help diagnose COVID-19 in a greater number of people. 
  Detroit:  Bus riders in the city suddenly were stranded Tuesday after most drivers didn’t report to work, apparently concerned about the spread of the coronavirus and whether Michigan’s new restrictions on gatherings include vehicles loaded with commuters. The Detroit Department of Transportation canceled bus service shortly after 8  a.m. due to the shortage of drivers. Riders waiting at stops across the city were surprised and pulled out their phones to get a lift from friends or family. Bus driver Schetrone Collier said he and his colleagues have concerns about the coronavirus pandemic that are not being addressed. They note that Gov. Gretchen Whitmer’s order bans more than 50 people from gathering at a time and that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended no more than 10 people gather. The city said it reached an agreement with unions to address anxieties and restore service. 
  St. Paul:  The state House passed a bill early Tuesday that provides $200  million to combat the coronavirus pandemic in this state where the number of cases has grown to 54. The bill allocates $150  million for a newly created health care response fund. The Minnesota Department of Health will make grants to health care providers in dealing with COVID-19, including testing services. The legislation also provides $50  million for a contingency account for use by providers, ambulance services, health care clinics, hospitals and long-term care facilities. The House action on St. Patrick’s Day comes after Gov. Tim Walz ordered bars and restaurants across Minnesota to temporarily close to customers who dine in. “While each of us is working as hard as we can to decrease the risk of transmission, we must ensure our health care providers have the resources they need to take care of Minnesotans who may be afflicted with COVID-19,” House Speaker Melissa Hortman said in a statement. 
  Jackson:  Legislators said Tuesday that they will suspend their session until at least April  1 because of the coronavirus pandemic, in accordance with a recommendation from the state health officer. Mississippi reported 21 confirmed cases of the virus as of Tuesday, up from 12 on Monday. Lawmakers were attempting to finish up one urgent task before pushing the pause button: considering a bill that would give city and county governments and school boards the power to pay hourly employees who are not working during a disaster, including the current pandemic. The bill was expected to pass. State law already authorizes the government to pay its hourly employees who can’t work during emergencies. The legislation would not affect private businesses, although Democratic Rep. Robert Johnson of Natchez sought changes to make unemployment benefits available to private employees temporarily out of work. 
  Lee’s Summit:  A clinical lab in the state says it has developed a test for the novel coronavirus that is more than 99% accurate. KCUR reports Viracor Eurofins in Lee’s Summit claims it is capable of performing more than 1,000 tests per day and returning results the same day. Officials say the test would allow for expanding testing to patients who don’t currently meet the eligibility criteria for public laboratory testing established by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Company Vice President Steve Kleiboecker said the test is performed with chemicals and reagents – compounds used to detect other substances. That allows it to be performed quickly. The test has yet to be approved by the Food and Drug Administration, but the company is certified by the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments, which sets standards for clinical lab testing. The certification allows the lab to proceed with tests and then send data to the FDA for review. The Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services has allowed testing to begin.
  Butte:  The Irish flag flew over the Capitol on Tuesday, keeping alive one St. Patrick’s Day tradition even as celebrations and parades were canceled across the state because of the coronovirus outbreak. With ample space between them, a nod to the precautions being taken to curb the virus’s spread, Gov. Steve Bullock and Lewis and Clark County Commissioner Jim McCormick read proclamations on the Capitol steps in Helena before raising the Irish flag. But the festivities that usually take place afterward, including Irish dancing in the rotunda, were canceled. St. Patrick’s Day is widely celebrated in Montana. But the mood was subdued Tuesday, with parades scratched and people sticking close to home, or else practicing social distancing guidelines that advise people to keep at least 6 feet away from one another. Most of the state’s large cities issued orders to close bars, restaurants, gyms and entertainment venues.
  Omaha:  Eight state residents who were on a cruise ship forced to idle off the California coast because of COVID-19 cases aboard have returned to Nebraska and will isolate themselves for 14 days, officials said. The Grand Princess pulled into the Port of Oakland on March  9 with more than 3,500 people aboard – 21 confirmed to be infected with the new virus. The Nebraska residents were among those then taken for quarantine at a California military facility. Eight of them flew back to Nebraska on Monday, the Nebraska Health and Human Services Department said. Four more will be arriving in the coming days. The passengers were medically screened before their flights to ensure they are not showing symptoms of COVID-19 or other illness. In another Nebraska coronavirus development, Douglas County reported Tuesday that another resident tested positive. He was described as a man in his 30s who was exposed in another state. 
  Reno:  All bars, nightclubs, restaurants and gyms will close in the city by 5  p.m. Friday in an effort to reduce the risk of exposure to the coronavirus outbreak, Mayor Hillary Schieve announced. Schieve initially included casinos on the closure list late Monday with plans to begin the shutdowns Tuesday morning. But she quickly rescinded that directive and further clarified restaurants can continue carry-out orders and keep drive-thru windows open. Officials for the neighboring city of Sparks and surrounding Washoe County said Tuesday they have no immediate plans to follow Reno’s lead. The mayor of Las Vegas – where several large casino resorts have closed on the Strip – said a mandatory closure of bars and restaurants there would be devastating. “My hope is that private industry rises to the top, that they’re allowed to stay open and take care of these families that are paycheck to paycheck,” Mayor Carolyn Goodman told the Las Vegas Review-Journal. Nevada has reported at least 45 cases of the virus so far. 
  Concord:  State residents unable to work or those facing reduced hours because of the coronavirus pandemic will have access to immediate unemployment benefits, as well as temporary protection from losing their homes or having their utilities shut off. Gov. Chris Sununu issued several executive orders Tuesday, a day after he banned both large public gatherings and dine-in service restaurants. The latter decision was made in part to prevent St. Patrick’s Day revelers from flooding into the state from Massachusetts, which enacted similar restrictions over the weekend, Sununu said. “Unlike some larger states like Texas or Oklahoma, we have such common interstate travel over our borders,” said Sununu, a Republican. “All of those factors and data points are brought into consideration before we make any serious decision.” As of Tuesday, nearly 20 people in the state had tested positive for COVID-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus.
  Trenton:  A third person in the state died from COVID-19 on Tuesday, Gov. Phil Murphy said, while casinos, gyms and theaters weathered their first night of an indefinite shutdown. Murphy, a Democrat, announced the state’s farthest-reaching virus mitigation measures to date: prohibiting groups of more than 50 people, along with the shutdown of some of the state’s entertainment and recreational sector and the curtailing of dining across the state. Many restaurants, bars and their patrons coped with mandated takeout and delivery-only service. All schools in the state will be shut down indefinitely by Wednesday in accordance with Murphy’s order, though many have already closed. “I’m reminded of Sheriff Brody in ‘Jaws,’  ” Murphy said Tuesday. “When he finally had a good look at the shark, he turned around and said, ‘We’re going to need a bigger boat.’ And what you’re hearing from us today is a bigger boat. We have seen the enemy, and we do not want to be dragged by the enemy.” 
  Albuquerque:  Two more people in the state have tested positive for the coronavirus, health officials said Tuesday. A man in Taos County in his 50s and a man in Santa Fe County in his 40s both recently tested positive for COVID-19, bringing the total number of cases in New Mexico to 23, officials said. It’s the first positive test in Taos County. The state Department of Health has active investigations into each of the positive patients, which includes finding people with whom they were in contact and swabbing those with symptoms. The new cases come as the National Guard is helping deliver food to some school districts scrambling to feed children on the first day of a statewide school shutdown. Nine districts – from Santa Fe and Estancia to Bloomfield, Silver City and Texico – lacked supplies because students there were supposed to be on spring break this week. The Albuquerque Journal reports the National Guard delivered the food Sunday night and Monday morning.
  New York:  The city ground to a halt Tuesday, the first full day without restaurants except for takeout orders amid the coronavirus crisis. State officials scrambled to bring more hospital beds online as the number of confirmed cases in the state rose above 1,300. Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Tuesday that demand for hospital beds in the state could outstrip current capacity by tens of thousands when cases of the coronavirus reaches an expected peak in 45 days. Cuomo revealed the projections as confirmed cases of the COVID-19 virus statewide shot up to more than 1,300. There were 264 hospitalizations and 12 deaths. Officials are also scrambling to increase the number of hospital beds in New York from 53,000, with 3,000 ICU beds. Cuomo said at the current rate of spread, the state would need 55,000 to 110,000 hospital beds and 18,600 to 37,200 ICU beds. “The numbers are daunting,” he said. Cuomo said the state also will need more ventilators to help patients breathe.
  Raleigh:  Gov. Roy Cooper is ordering all restaurants and bars be closed to dine-in patrons as movement restrictions keep getting ratcheted up to dampen the spread of the coronavirus. Cooper’s office announced he would issue a new executive order directing the closings effective at 5  p.m. Tuesday. The establishments can continue to offer takeout and delivery, according to a news release. Until now, bars and restaurants were exempted from Cooper’s prohibition of assemblies of more than 100 people, but state health officials had discouraged crowds at them and urged safe distancing. Cooper’s order was also set to expand unemployment benefits to help employees harmed financially by closings in commerce, his office said. By Tuesday morning, North Carolina state government had counted 40 residents who tested positive for COVID-19, with 15 of those living in Wake County and seven in Mecklenburg. No deaths have been reported in the state. 
  Fargo:  Cass County is planning to reduce the number of inmates in its jail to deal with a possible coronavirus outbreak. Jail administrator Andy Frobig says reducing the population will allow single bunks for every inmate. KFGO reports there will also be housing units designated for those that show signs of illness, which will further separate them from other inmates. About 270 inmates are currently in the jail. Frobig says the goal is to cut the number of inmates to 180 or less. Modifications may be made on a case-by-case basis for inmates with minor offenses that would allow their release, most under supervision by the sheriff’s office.
  Columbus:  The state marked St. Patrick’s Day on Tuesday with no parades and no primary election over fears of the coronavirus outbreak. Health Director Dr. Amy Acton issued an order late Monday shutting down polls Tuesday after a judge refused to stop the election. As of Monday, there were 50 confirmed cases of the coronavirus in Ohio, including 14 hospitalizations. There have been no reported deaths in the state. Drive-up testing offered by hospitals was available Tuesday in Cincinnati, Cleveland and Dayton, among other cities. Ohio State University and Capital University in Columbus, Youngstown State University, and the University of Findlay were among those announcing the cancellation of May commencement ceremonies, saying they couldn’t comply with restrictions severely limiting the size of gatherings. And with numerous businesses ordered temporarily closed, the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services said it had received 48,640 unemployment insurance benefit applications online in just two days this week, compared to typical filings of a few hundred. Restaurants are among the hardest-hit businesses because of restrictions on dining in.
  Norman:  Bars, some restaurants and other businesses in two of Oklahoma’s three largest cities are being closed by mayors in an effort to slow the spread of the coronavirus. On Tuesday, Tulsa Mayor G.T. Bynum ordered the immediate shutdown of bars, while restaurants can serve only takeout orders starting at midnight. Bynum’s order comes a day after Norman Mayor Breea Clark ordered the shutdown of bars and banned dine-in services at restaurants starting at 8  p.m. Wednesday. Businesses such as theaters, gyms and amusement facilities must also close in both cities. The order in Norman is in effect until April  3, according to a news release, while Tulsa’s directive is in effect “until further notice,” said city spokeswoman Michelle Brooks. 
  Portland:  Authorities in Multnomah County – home to Portland – announced Tuesday that they will be opening hundreds of new shelter beds in public buildings throughout the city to try to stem the spread of the coronavirus in the homeless community. The most vulnerable homeless residents have been given vouchers for hotel and motel rooms, and those businesses will not be allowed to kick them out or turn people away, said Deborah Kafoury, chair of the Multnomah County Board of Supervisors. Local government will also open spaces for homeless people with the coronavirus to recuperate indoors, she said. Volunteers have made contact with 1,700 people living on the streets or in their cars in the past week throughout the county to provide information about the coronavirus and to offer services, Kafoury said. The city and county are also jointly suspending evictions for those who can’t pay rent due to COVID-19 for as long as the crisis lasts, said Portland Mayor Ted Wheeler. Renters will have six months to repay their back rent after the city and county lift the state of emergency.
  Harrisburg:  The state’s Department of Health is working on a plan to open public testing sites for the coronavirus, as Pennsylvania’s health systems and hospitals increasingly operate their own sample-taking sites or testing laboratories. A department spokesman, Nate Wardle, said the agency is in the process of organizing public testing sites and will announce them when there are locations, times and dates. Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia is able to test, and Geisinger Health System is testing for its own in-house patients, the department said. Meanwhile, some hospitals are operating specimen-collecting sites, including the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania and Main Line Health in the Philadelphia area and Central Outreach Wellness Center in Pittsburgh. Dr. Ronald Walsh, clinical laboratory director at Health Network Laboratories/Lehigh Valley Health Network, said Tuesday that his lab will go live with testing in the next couple of days. In addition to the Department of Health, four private lab companies are testing specimens, the department said.
  Providence:  Two charitable organizations teamed up Tuesday to help support nonprofits serving vulnerable populations affected by the coronavirus pandemic. The Rhode Island Foundation and United Way of Rhode Island jointly established the COVID-19 Response Fund, quickly raising $1.5  million from individual and corporate donors. The Foundation and United Way will form a joint grant-making committee to make funding decisions. United Way says the state’s nonprofits need grocery gift cards and meals for low-income families; internet access, smart devices, laptops and technical support to enable remote work; cleaning supplies, gloves and masks for direct service employees; and utility relief and rental assistance. “We are in the midst of an unpredictable, rapidly changing public health emergency – one that is having immediate impact on the community we care so deeply about, and that will likely have lasting, consequential effects,” said Neil Steinberg, president and CEO of the Foundation. 
  Columbia:  State senators on Tuesday approved $45  million in emergency funding to fight the new coronavirus and will debate whether to go ahead and pass a plan to keep government operating if they can’t meet enough to approve a budget. The Senate Finance Committee met in a nearly empty room Tuesday, and the Senate met in a nearly empty Statehouse later. After getting an update on the virus and agreeing to send the emergency request to the full Senate, the committee then debated what kind of message it would send if they voted in mid-March for a proposal typically passed in June when budget negotiations appear to be running long. On one side are senators who said they don’t expect a disaster that would prevent them from meeting for months but think it is better to be prudent just in case. “Talk about chaos in this state,” Republican Senate Finance Committee Chairman Hugh Leatherman of Florence said if the worst-case scenario happened and state government had no way to spend money after July  1. On the other side were senators who said it would send the wrong message to take such a drastic step when they are trying to maintain confidence with the public. 
  Sioux Falls:  Gov. Kristi Noem on Tuesday ordered schools to stay closed again next week while the state waits for health care providers to make more testing available. Officials announced earlier in the day that one more person has tested positive for COVID-19 in South Dakota, bringing the state’s total to 11. Authorities confirmed Monday that one death last week was caused by COVID-19. The new case is in Minnehaha County, which contains Sioux Falls, the state’s largest city. Five of the people who tested positive for the coronavirus live in the county. The latest case is a woman in her 50s. All the positive cases have come from people who traveled outside the state, and there is currently no evidence of it spreading in communities, officials said. Noem on Monday met with leaders from two of the state’s largest health care providers, Sanford and Avera. The companies announced they would be coordinating to make more tests available and expanding testing to commercial labs.
  Nashville:  State lawmakers acknowledged they were shirking federal health recommendations on the coronavirus by sitting in close quarters as they conducted business Tuesday. They also drew questions about whether they were staying focused on only the most necessary legislation, as promised, during their sprint toward a recess by the end of the week. “Wash your hands regularly. Do the best you can to social distance. I know we are currently, we’re not necessarily right now, well, we’re not following the recommendations,” Republican Sen. Bo Watson told members of his Finance Committee. The Republican leadership has said it’s focusing on “mission critical” legislation, including constitutionally required budget duties, so lawmakers can disperse amid global closures to stem the virus’s spread and come back as soon as June  1 to finish approving other legislative issues. 
  Austin:  The city on Tuesday joined other major counterparts across the state in closing bars and restaurant dining rooms to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, which has now resulted in the state’s first death. Dr. Mark Escott, director of Austin-Travis County Health Authority, also announced that pubic gatherings in the Texas capital are now limited to 10 people, following recommendations released a day earlier by the Trump administration. That’s more restrictive than similar measures taken in Dallas, which on Monday ordered that public gatherings should not exceed 50 people. Houston has also enacted restrictions on bars, clubs and restaurants in hopes of keeping people home.
  Salt Lake City:  The state’s two largest hospital systems have delayed elective surgeries and other non-urgent medical procedures to save space and equipment for future patients with the new coronavirus. Intermountain Healthcare and University of Utah Health expect an influx of coronavirus patients in the coming weeks. Though most of the 41 people diagnosed have recovered at home so far, the path of the virus in other places like Italy indicates Utah will experience a surge soon, authorities said Monday. Patients who had planned surgeries or other procedures are expected to hear from their health care providers about changes. Delays are expected to be for at least a few weeks, KSL reports. The move will keep hospital beds free and preserve protective equipment that’s in short supply around the country, hospital officials said. It will also allow doctors, nurses and patients to practice social distancing. People with urgent needs and time-sensitive conditions like cancer will continue to get treatments, the Salt Lake Tribune reports.
  Bennington:  The first Vermont patient with a confirmed case of COVID-19 has improved to stable at the hospital where he is being treated, officials said. In a statement issued by the Southwestern Vermont Medical Center, Chief Nursing Officer Pamela Duchene called the patient’s condition an improvement. The Bennington hospital is now treating three cases of COVID-19. The hospital is also offering drive-up testing for the disease caused by the coronavirus. The hospital has been conducting about 20 tests a day, Duchene said. The Burlington-based University of Vermont Medical Center has also set up a pop-up testing site at the Champlain Valley Exposition in Essex Junction. All pre-K-12 schools in Vermont were to shutter by Tuesday. Also, bars and restaurants across the state were told to close by 2  p.m. Tuesday, although takeout and delivery are still available. 
  Richmond:  Restaurants, gyms and theaters will not serve more than 10 customers at a time under an order the governor issued Tuesday in response to the coronavirus. Gov. Ralph Northam also urged Virginians to comply with new federal guidelines not to gather in groups of more than 10 and for people older than 65 to self-quarantine. Several other states and cities have ordered restaurants and bars to close, which Northam said he did not favor. Speaking at a Capitol news conference, he said Virginians get about half their meals from restaurants, and an outright ban would be harmful. He also said he hoped Virginians would voluntarily comply with the new measures. “I’m much more about carrots than I am about sticks,” Northam said. “Hopefully we get to the point where we don’t have to do a lot of enforcement.” The governor’s office said the 10-customer cap was indefinite but would be reevaluated in two weeks.
  Seattle:  The death toll from the coronavirus in the state reached 50 on Tuesday morning when Clark County health officials announced their first fatal cases, a husband and wife in their 80s. The couple were hospitalized at PeaceHealth Southwest Medical Center last week and died Monday night, according to Clark County health officials. One had been living in a small adult family home, and the other was a resident of an assisted living community. “This is a horrible tragedy,” said Dr. Alan Melnick, Clark County health officer and Public Health director. “Our thoughts and prayers are with the family during this time.” Washington has the highest number of deaths in the U.S., with most being associated with a nursing home in Kirkland. By Monday, the number of positive cases topped 900. Gov. Jay Inslee imposed strict new rules this week to help slow the spread of COVID-19. He mandated an immediate two-week closure of all restaurants, bars recreational facilities. He also increased the limits on large gatherings.
  Charleston:  Gov. Jim Justice on Monday declared a state of emergency in response to the new coronavirus, even as West Virginia remains the last state in the U.S. without a confirmed case. The Republican governor said he issued the declaration so certain rules on personnel and purchasing could be waived. He said he wants to be on the “safe side.” “In the state of West Virginia, I do not want us to be asleep at the switch because just happened to not have a positive test,” Justice said. State health officials said 84 people have been tested, with 80 negatives and 4 tests pending as of Monday afternoon, but Justice has repeatedly said the virus is likely here and going undetected because of a national lack of testing. Justice and U.S. Sen Joe Manchin, a Democrat, noted the virus could be especially damaging in West Virginia because of the state’s high elderly population and high percentage of people with existing health problems. “I’m afraid it could be lethal because of our fragile population,” Manchin said.
  Madison:  Gov. Tony Evers ordered a statewide ban on all gatherings of more than 10 people as of 5  p.m. Tuesday and closed all bars and restaurants except for delivery and pickup orders – more unprecedented disruptions to daily life imposed in an attempt to limit the spread of the coronavirus. Evers also extended the closure of all public and private K-12 schools indefinitely and called on the Legislature to waive a one-week waiting period to receive unemployment compensation insurance. Evers said he would be talking with legislative leaders Wednesday about an aid package and when they could take it up. He also reiterated that he has no intention of delaying the state’s April  7 presidential primary and general election. Republican Senate Majority Leader Scott Fitzgerald also said a delay wasn’t being discussed. 
  Cheyenne:  Testing has revealed the new coronavirus in seven more people in the state, all of them tied to an assisted living center resident who tested positive previously. The number of Wyoming residents known to be infected rose to 10 with the new cases announced Monday night. Health officials confirmed the virus in an older man at the Showboat Retirement Center in Lander late last week. Wyoming Department of Health officials declined to say whether those newly identified with the virus also were patients at the assisted-living facility or discuss their conditions, the Casper Star-Tribune reports. People in recent contact with them would be monitored for fever, coughing and other symptoms of the COVID-19 illness caused by the virus and tested if needed, the department said in a news release.
  From USA TODAY Network and wire reports 
 