Times Insider  explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together. 
  When accounts of a coronavirus in China first emerged in late December, editors and reporters on the International desk at The New York Times relayed developments as they would with any other story.
  But on Jan. 23, after hundreds of people across several countries became infected and China decided to  lock down the city of Wuhan , where the outbreak originated, Michael Slackman, an assistant managing editor who oversees the International desk, felt the story required more aggressive coverage. He called for a  daily live briefing  — a single, continually updated article online that serves as a guide through a deep and wide-ranging report.
  The Times has used live briefings to cover other momentous events, like the  terrorist bombings in Sri Lanka  or  President Trump’s impeachment trial . But the coronavirus version is the longest-running 24-hour news briefing The Times has ever done. With multiple departments contributing, the live briefing extended to 31 days on Saturday and has received more than 50 million page views, with half of those coming from an international audience.
  Given the fallout of the virus — it has affected  the world’s health and science community ,  the global economy ,  international relations ,  tourism, sporting events ,  the arts  and more — producing the live briefing requires constant collaboration among dozens of editors, reporters and researchers around the clock and around the world.
  “The rhythms of The Times used to be very tied to print,” said Russell Goldman, a senior International editor based in Hong Kong. “Increasingly, we’re telling a story to a global audience in multiple time zones that wants the most up-to-date news as quickly as possible.”
  To guide readers through the live updates, the briefing features a box of bullet points that acts as a table of contents, a link to maps that  tracks the spread of the outbreak  and a chart that answers basic questions such as “What is a coronavirus?” and “How worried should I be?”
  At least two editors directly handle the briefing at any given time. On most days, Gillian Wong, the assistant Asia editor in Hong Kong who oversees China coverage, and Mr. Goldman produce a new briefing by compiling reports from about two dozen researchers and reporters across Asia. Then, at about 9 p.m. Hong Kong time, they hand it off to International editors in London, who continue to monitor global updates and add significant stories from Europe.
  As the day winds down in London, International editors in New York take over. They look out for coronavirus news in the United States and abroad and run ideas by reporters in Hong Kong who might stay up late to offer their insight.
  The team members overseeing the briefings stay in constant communication through email, multiple encrypted apps, internal chat groups, Google docs and, of course, the phone.
  “Readers want to know so many different things,” said Kim Fararo, one of the deputy editors on the International desk in New York. “It’s got to be a collaboration or we won’t be able to answer people well.”
  The briefings on the virus fall under the purview of the International desk but also feature regular contributions from Science, Business, National, Metro, Sports, Travel and Culture. The list of contributors at the bottom of the briefing grows longer every day, Mr. Goldman said. One report credited up to 30 or so writers.
  Chris Buckley and Amy Qin  have reported from the center of the crisis in Wuhan, along with the help of a researcher, Elsie Chen.  Motoko Rich , the Tokyo bureau chief,   has written extensively on  the thousands of passengers who were quarantined  on a cruise ship in Japan, while  Paul Mozur  and  Raymond Zhong , two technology reporters who have worked from Shanghai, have reported on China’s efforts to restrict the movements of 1.4 billion people as part of its vast containment effort.
  Sui-Lee Wee , a Beijing-based correspondent, traveled to Singapore to celebrate the Lunar New Year in mid-January. Within two weeks, the total number of cases rose to 10,000 from roughly 40. She decided to stay put and has been writing health care articles for the briefing as well as  larger features . “I’m kind of living out of two suitcases,” she said.
  Several reporters and editors — some of whom have been at The Times for more than a decade — said the coronavirus is the largest story they have worked on. And it continues to evolve.
  “Much about the virus remains a mystery,” Ms. Wong said. “Our plans have to be ready to adapt at a moment’s notice.”
  If the virus continues to spread, the live briefing will most likely continue, said Megan Specia, an International editor in London.
  “As long as there is a need for this to keep going,” she said, “it will keep going.”
 