with Mariana Alfaro
  President Trump has been known to  bend the facts , or outright misrepresent them, during his three-and-a-half years in the White House. And part of the problem he faces with the novel coronavirus is trying to defuse it rhetorically, by insisting for months  that the virus would simply go away .
  There have now been 88,000 coronavirus  deaths  and roughly 1.5 million infections reported in the United States. There is little sign that “this is going to go away without a vaccine,” as Trump  recently  claimed. Hydroxychloroquine, the anti-malarial drug Trump repeatedly touted as a “game-changer” is  now proving  instead dangerous to some coronavirus patients. And the president's  repeated promise  that every American who wants to be tested can be has yet to be realized.   In fact, Trump's  latest talking point  is testing is “overrated” because “when you test, you have a case.”
  Perhaps this is why Trump and his team appear to be applying pressure to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to rethink how it is calculating the number of virus deaths  —  in a way that may lower them.  That includes White House  coronavirus  task force coordinator Deborah Birx.
  The Daily Beast  reported  late last week the president and some inside the task force are “ pushing for revisions that could lead to far fewer deaths being counted than originally reported, according to five administration officials working on the government’s response to the pandemic.” They believe the death count is being inflated in some states by including deaths attributed to covid-19, even without positive tests confirming it. Some states are also counting people with covid-19 that may have died from other causes. 
  “ [A] ccording to one of the sources with knowledge of Trump’s private remarks, the president recently said that he’d like a ‘review’ of how the coronavirus deaths are counted and studied by the government, citing hypothetical cases in which a person has the virus but is killed by other unnatural means, such as falling down a flight of stairs.  The other source said that Trump pointed out that death estimates for other incidents  —  such as natural disasters and wars  —  are revised down or up ‘all the time’ and the same could be true of covid-19, write the Beast's Erin Banco and Asawin Suebsaeng. 
  The Washington Post had earlier reported on similar cold water thrown on the official U.S. death toll from Birx amid a robust debate over data between her and CDC Director Robert Redfield. 
  “Birx and others were frustrated with the CDC’s antiquated system for tracking virus data, which they worried was inflating some statistics — such as mortality rate and case count — by as much as 25 percent, according to four people present for the discussion or later briefed on it. Two senior administration officials said the discussion was not heated,”  reported  Josh Dawsey, Ashley Parker, Philip Rucker and Yasmeen Abutaleb.
  “There is nothing from the CDC that I can trust,” Birx said, according to the The Post ’s  reporting. 
  But other experts, including one of Birx's colleagues on the task force, top infectious-disease expert Anthony S. Fauci,  say  the recorded death toll, if anything, is an undercount.
  The prestigious public health agency should be running point during this pandemic, but the CDC and Redfield have been sidelined for a variety of reasons – including their early errors on testing, their officials making scientifically sound but politically charged statements, and the agency's  attempt to issue  very specific guidance for reopening the states.
  The  latest skirmish  came yesterday when White House trade adviser Peter Navarro hit the CDC on testing on NBC's “Meet the Press.” 
  “Early on in this crisis, the CDC — which really had the most trusted brand around the world in this space — really let the country down with the testing,” Navarro said. “Because not only did they keep the testing within the bureaucracy, they had a bad test. And that did set us back.”
  Replied Health and Human Services head Alex Azar, whose department oversees the CDC: “I don’t believe the CDC let this country down,” Azar said on CBS's “Face the Nation.” “I believe the CDC serves an important public health role. And what was always critical was to get the private sector to the table [on testing].”
  The White House is “frustrated by what they consider the agency’s balky flow of data and information, the leak of an early version of the CDC’s reopening recommendations, and the agency’s crucial early failure to create and roll out a test for the virus, according to three administration officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal disagreements,”  report  The Post's Lenny Bernstein, Dawsey and Abutaleb.
  Things have broken down to such an extent that the government hired TeleTracking Technologies, a Pittsburgh firm, to collect data on hospital beds, capacity, covid-19 deaths and infections – information already provided by the CDC. 
  “One senior administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss these problems, said the soft-spoken, deeply religious Redfield has few allies in the rough-and-tumble internal politics of the Trump administration,” report my colleagues. “'He just has no power over his agency. He has no loyal politicals. He is a man on an island,' that person said.”
  Furthermore, Fauci “is widely known to loathe” Redfield and “vice versa,”  wrote  the Financial Times.
  The CDC  whiffed  the  initial distribution  of tests  before the White House began to take the virus seriously. After distributing a flawed system, the agency failed to fix the test quickly, severely restricted those eligible for testing, and refused to adopt a smoother running exam being used by the World Health Organization.
  But Trump clamped down on the agency at a crucial time after CDC official Nancy Messonnier  said  in late February it wasn't a matter of if but when the virus would spread in the United States and that   “disruption to everyday life might be severe.”
  Messonnier now seems awfully prescient. But Trump was  “enraged”  by the comments as the stock market tanked, and the day after, he named Vice President Pence the head of the coronavirus task force. The CDC hasn't held a news conference since March 9 and public health officials  were directed  to coordinate their public remarks with Pence for the time being.
  Trump's relationship with CDC officials deteriorated further when  Redfield , a military doctor who ran the AIDs response but has not led a government agency until now, told The Post things could worsen with a second wave of the virus. 
  “There’s a possibility that the assault of the virus on our nation next winter will actually be even more difficult than the one we just went through,”  he told  Lena H. Sun. “We’re going to have the flu epidemic and the coronavirus epidemic at the same time,” he said.
  The discordant note from a member of his team did not please Trump, who claimed his CDC head was “misquoted” and vowed a retraction would be forthcoming. It was not, but Redfield was summoned to the briefing room podium later that day to clarify he meant the combined effects of covid-19 and the flu converging at the same time. But  Redfield asserted  he was “accurately quoted in The Washington Post.”
  The Post  reported  in mid-April that “CDC and FEMA officials have worked on the public health response for at least the past week, and the resulting document has been discussed at the White House, including by members of the coronavirus task force.” 
  But the early draft was never released. Instead, “the CDC released just six short ‘decision trees’ Thursday while the rest of its lengthy proposal remains under review at the White House,   where it has been for weeks,"  report  Bernstein, Dawsey and Abutaleb. 
  All of this has led to where we are now: The CDC is playing, at most, backseat driver in the most challenging pandemic since 1918. 
  And it is making it easier for Trump and his allies to suggest the death count might be inflated.
  It seems unlikely that has happened, according to experts. A Post analysis counted 37,100  “excess deaths”  in March and the first two weeks of April, meaning that many more people died than normally do at that time of the year. That doesn't mean those people all died of covid-19, but it is a signal in the noise for scientists looking for answers.
  A hallmark of the Trump presidency has been his shading of the facts and  shunning of science  largely accepted by other public policymakers. Those things could be a major liability during a pandemic that requires a clear-eyed look at the truths, even if they're unpalatable, to make the best decisions for the country. And save American lives.
  Steve Linick, the quasi-independent watchdog whose job it was to expose waste and malfeasance within the agency, “was looking into allegations that a staffer for Secretary of State Mike Pompeo was performing domestic errands and chores such as handling dry cleaning, walking the family dog and making restaurant reservations, said a congressional official familiar with the matter,”  Mike DeBonis and John Hudson report . “It remains unclear what specifically triggered his ouster Friday night. The congressional official … said that the State Department staffer was a political appointee and that at least one congressional committee learned of the allegations around the time of Linick’s firing. … 
  “The White House said Trump’s late-night ouster of Linick came at the recommendation of Pompeo,  a decision that has prompted criticisms from Democrats and some Republicans as a threat to good governance and oversight. … Trump replaced Linick with Stephen J. Akard, a trusted ally of Vice President Pence and the official in charge of the Office of Foreign Missions. … On Saturday, House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Eliot L. Engel (D-N.Y.) and the Senate Foreign Relations Committee’s ranking Democrat, Robert Menendez (N.J.), launched a joint investigation into Linick’s firing.” 
  “Amid a once-in-a-century deadly pandemic, Trump has inserted his ego squarely into the U.S. response while simultaneously minimizing his own role — deferring critical decisions to others, undermining his credibility with confusion and misinformation, and shirking responsibility in what some see as a shrinking of the American presidency,"  Ashley Parker and Philip Rucker report.  "Historian Doris Kearns Goodwin, who studies presidential leadership, said Trump has diminished the influence of his office relative to the outsize responsibilities past presidents have taken on during crises, most notably Franklin D. Roosevelt amid the Great Depression and World War II. … Unlike former president Barack Obama — who made a point of getting photographed receiving an H1N1 vaccine to encourage the public to do similarly — Trump has largely modeled poor public health behavior." 
  “In an interview with Fox News’s Jeanine Pirro, [Eric] Trump suggested the president’s critics were using the pandemic to undermine his father’s rallies, calling it a ‘cognizant strategy’ that would cease once it was no longer politically expedient. ‘You watch, they’ll milk it every single day between now and November 3,’ the younger Trump said. ‘And guess what, after November 3, coronavirus will magically, all of a sudden, go away and disappear and everybody will be able to reopen,’”  Derek Hawkins reports . “He also attacked former vice president Joe Biden and boasted about crowd sizes at President Trump’s political events. … The Biden campaign pushed back against Trump’s comments, calling them ‘unbelievably reckless.’” 
  “Biden’s advisers, aware of what Trump is preparing to fire at him, describe themselves as dead set against being triggered by his provocations or engaging with him on his terms. Voters will decide the election, they believe, in response to the crisis now engulfing the nation, not the spectacle of Trump’s Twitter feed,”  Michael Scherer and Josh Dawsey report . “The most explosive Trump volleys have been dismissed by them as distractions — so far at least — even as Trump’s attacks on the former vice president’s competence and economic record stir more concern and response. … [Some of Biden’s top advisers are] predicting that Trump’s tactics of embracing false conspiracy theories and stirring up hurricanes of controversy could backfire … 
  “It’s a wager the Trump campaign’s top advisers are happy to take. After more than two months of mixed messages and inconsistent strategy, Trump chose the second week of May to finally launch his campaign at its full power against Biden, attacking his record, his integrity and his mental acuity with a media blitz anchored by about $10 million in television ads in the key swing states of Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Michigan, Florida, Arizona, Iowa and North Carolina. …  Pro-Trump ads in the electoral battlegrounds now outnumber Democratic ads for the first time this year, by a margin of about 2 to 1  since the beginning of the month, according to Democratic advertising tracking data provided to The Post.” 
  “The day Juliet Daly’s heart gave out started much like every other Monday during the quarantine. The 12-year-old from Covington, La., padded out of her room in her PJs shortly after 7 a.m., ate a half-bowl of Rice Krispies, and got on a Zoom call with her sixth-grade social studies class. She had been feeling unwell all weekend with twisting abdominal pains, vomiting and a fever of 101.5, but she seemed to be on the mend,”  Ariana Eunjung Cha and Chelsea Janes report . When she was taken to the emergency department, “doctors noticed an unusual constellation of symptoms pointing to a different problem. Her heart rate was extraordinarily low, jumping around in the 40s when it should have been between 70 to 120 beats per minute. And when they squeezed her nails, they turned white and stayed white when they should have gone back to pink. Juliet was in a kind of toxic shock, and her heart had become so inflamed it was barely beating. … The doctors knew enough about the pathogen’s effects on adults that they immediately suspected the coronavirus. Cases like Juliet’s, a puzzling inflammatory syndrome in children believed linked to covid-19, had been popping up in different parts of the world for months, but it wasn’t until recently that health authorities began tracking the phenomenon."
  “When a sprinkling of a reddish rash appeared on Jack McMorrow’s hands in mid-April, his father figured the 14-year-old was overusing hand sanitizer — not a bad thing during a global pandemic. When Jack’s parents noticed that his eyes looked glossy, they attributed it to late nights of video games and TV,”  the Times reports . “But over the next 10 days, Jack felt increasingly unwell. His parents consulted his pediatricians in video appointments and took him to a weekend urgent care clinic. Then, one morning, he awoke unable to move. He had a tennis-ball-size lymph node, raging fever, racing heartbeat and dangerously low blood pressure. … Jack, who was previously healthy, was hospitalized with heart failure that day, in a stark example of the newly discovered severe inflammatory syndrome linked to the coronavirus …  Jack’s recovery and the experience of other survivors are Rosetta stones for doctors, health officials and parents anxious to understand the mysterious condition.” 
  “Governments and drugmakers are weighing how to roll out coronavirus vaccines, including reserving the first batches for health-care workers, as several shots race to early leads,”  the Wall Street Journal reports . “Of more than 100 vaccines in development globally, at least eight have started testing in humans, including candidates from Moderna Inc. and Pfizer Inc. At the same time, pharmaceutical giants like Johnson & Johnson, AstraZeneca PLC and Sanofi are building capacity to make hundreds of millions of doses of their own or their partners’ vaccines. … Yet there isn’t a guarantee that any of the most advanced vaccine candidates will prove to work safely on such a short timetable.”
  “A Post survey of governors’ offices and state health departments found at least a dozen states where testing capacity outstrips the supply of patients. Many have scrambled to make testing more convenient, especially for vulnerable communities, by setting up pop-up sites and developing apps that help assess symptoms, find free test sites and deliver quick results. But the numbers, while rising, are well short of capacity — and far short of targets set by independent experts. Utah, for example, is conducting about 3,500 tests a day, a little more than a third of its 9,000-test maximum capacity, and health officials have erected highway billboards begging drivers to ‘GET TESTED FOR COVID-19,’”  Steve Thompson, Juliet Eilperin and Brady Dennis report.  “Why aren’t more people showing up? … Experts say several factors may be preventing more people from seeking tests, including a lingering sense of scarcity, a lack of access in rural and underserved communities, concerns about cost, and skepticism about testing operations. … 
  “Another major hurdle: lingering confusion about who qualifies . … ‘A lot of states put in very, very restrictive testing policies . . . because they didn’t have any tests. And they’ve either not relaxed those, or the word is not getting out,’ said Ashish Jha, who directs the Harvard Global Health Institute. ‘We want to be at a point where everybody who has mild symptoms is tested. That is critical. That is still not happening in a lot of places.’ …  A White House estimate, obtained by The Post, shows the nation has sufficient lab capacity to process at least 400,000 tests per day, and potentially many more. But in surveying the states, The Post found that few are testing at full capacity. ” 
  “The sky was blue, the sun was rising, and as the death toll from the coronavirus continued to soar across much of America, the fountains switched on in Avalon, a development of restaurants and shops in a wealthy corner of suburban Atlanta. It was time for life to resume, Georgia’s governor had decided, so a masked worker swept the threshold of Chanel,”  Stephanie McCrummen reports.  “A gardener fluffed pink roses in planters along the sidewalks, where signs on doors said what so many had been waiting to hear. ‘Open,’ read one. ‘Welcome back!’ read another. … Stay-at-home-orders are being lifted, businesses are opening, and millions of Americans now find themselves free to make millions of individual decisions about how to calibrate their sense of civic duty with their pent-up desires for the old routines and indulgences of life.
  “In this grand gamble, Georgia has gone first, with Gov. Brian Kemp (R) dismissing public health experts who’ve warned that opening too soon could cause a catastrophic surge of deaths, placing his faith instead in the citizens of Georgia to make up their own minds about what risks and sacrifices they were willing to accept …  Outside Urban Outfitters ,  Jennifer Kiernan was having a glass of wine as her daughter shopped inside. ‘Oh my God, this feels  great  — I love it,’ she said, explaining that she assumed that she and everyone around her was healthy. “I think people would not be out if they had been exposed to anyone with corona.” 
  Still, HHS Secretary Alex Azar said identifying and reporting new cases takes time. “That's why a critical part of reopening has been influenza-like illness surveillance and other hospital admission surveillance, as well as syndromic testing of asymptomatic individuals, especially in high-risk communities,” he said on  CBS’s “Face the Nation. . “It’s still early days,” he said.
  Azar, on  CNN’s “State of the Union,”  said that underlying health conditions among Americans, particularly among minorities, have augmented the death toll. Host Jake Tapper pushed back, asking whether he was suggesting so many Americans had died because they were “unhealthier than the rest of the world?” Azar said no, but added the U.S has a “significantly disproportionate burden of co-morbidities,” including obesity, hypertension and diabetes. ( Teo Armus ) 
  “The covid-19 deaths were piling up so fast that New York City bus driver Danny Cruz began to worry that no one understood the toll the virus was taking on his fellow transit workers. So in early April, he began keeping a list of those killed by the disease and posting it on Facebook. Cruz had lost a friend and fellow driver at his depot to the novel coronavirus a few days earlier. He also had tested positive for it himself,”  Justin George and Greg Jaffe report . “By Cruz’s count, 129 New York City transit workers have died of covid-19. … For transit workers, the return to normal life only exacerbates their fears. … At least 10,000 Metropolitan Transit Authority employees have been quarantined during the outbreak."
  “It was Day One of Phase 1 — when the stay-at-home order was lifted and New Orleans was supposed to begin coming back to life. For the first time in two months, most businesses were allowed to open. Restaurants and food-serving bars could seat customers at 25 percent capacity,”  David Montgomery and Richard Webster report . But “on Bourbon Street alone, three huge hotels with many hundreds of rooms between them sat shuttered. … Food and beer trucks started appearing around town last week as some restaurants and bars laid in supplies. But in a sign of the ambivalent nature of this reopening, several business owners said they were going to pass up the opportunity for now. To them, it’s still too soon to bring customers in safely and make employees cook in cramped kitchens. And it doesn’t make economic sense to operate at 25 percent capacity, they said, which all but guarantees they will lose money.” 
  “Nicaragua has stood out in Latin America for an almost complete lack of restrictions to contain [the virus]. The government of President Daniel Ortega has kept offices and schools open. Authorities deny the virus has spread widely; in this nation of 6 million, one of the poorest in the Western Hemisphere, they insist there have been only 25 cases and eight deaths,”  Ismael López Ocampo and Mary Beth Sheridan report . “Health officials give far higher estimates. And the speedy burials are hardly the norm for victims of common respiratory illnesses. Often, they are carried out at night by white-suited medical personnel, with police or members of pro-government paramilitary groups watching nearby. They come as signs of the outbreak are multiplying. … Late last month, a 57-year-old government worker was quietly interred in Managua, after dying of what was classified as cardiogenic shock, a heart problem. The burial was so swift that ‘they put him in the coffin in his hospital gown’ said the man’s daughter, who spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of reprisal. ‘At 5 in the morning they buried him without his family present.’” 
  “The nation of 12 million has the highest mortality rate among confirmed cases, at 16.4 percent. And it has the most deaths in terms of its population: 78 deaths per 100,000 people, according to statistics compiled by Johns Hopkins University,”  Michael Birnbaum reports . “Belgian officials have sought to tamp down concern by suggesting their chart-topping numbers are products of their accounting methods and commitment to capturing an accurate picture of their outbreak. Other ways of estimating virus-related deaths suggest that the Belgian method might indeed turn out to be among the most accurate in the world, and that other countries may be significantly undercounting their death tolls. The bad news for Belgium is that even in those other calculations, the country still comes off poorly compared to its neighbors, after adjusting for their size.”
  “Israel's new government, headed once again by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, was sworn into office on Sunday, ending nearly a year-and-a-half of political stalemate involving three stormy elections and multiple rounds of coalition negotiations,”  Ruth Eglash reports . This “marked a fifth term for Netanyahu — his fourth consecutive term — and the first time an Israeli leader indicted on criminal charges will formally lead the country. Netanyahu opened the televised ceremony with a speech, followed by Benny Gantz, a onetime rival turned partner, who will serve in the specially created role of alternate prime minister, as well as defense minister, for the first 18 months of the term before taking over the top job for an equal period.”
  The president went after a CNN reporter who briefly removed her face mask while in the White House briefing room: 
  Never forget, there is always a tweet:
  Inspired by a  BBC story , some shared the last “normal” photos on their phones:
  Soccer is back, at least in parts of Europe, but players still can't celebrate like they used to: 
  And it looks like boars are taking advantage of Berlin's empty streets: 
  John Oliver took a look at the impact the virus has had on sports:
  Trevor Noah went looking for some good news:
 