with Mariana Alfaro
  Note to readers: James Hohmann is on vacation until July 20. We have an all-star lineup of guest hosts from The Post to ensure you stay informed during his absence. 
  Over the past five days, the United States  has suffered  a worsening resurgence of coronavirus cases indicating that  —  after six months  —  the most powerful country in the world has made  little progress  in controlling the virus and that Americans may indefinitely remain its prisoners. 
  President Trump, meanwhile, has been largely MIA on a question most citizens expect their president to address: What does he plan to do now to better protect the public health and return the country to normalcy? 
  The American people heard little from their president over the weekend on the worrisome  infections  spreading throughout the South and West. 
  From Thursday to today, Trump apparently preferred to spend his time on other things.   
  He  wiped away the prison sentence  of his convicted political adviser Roger Stone and golfed two days in a row at his Trump National Golf Club on the banks of the Potomac River. The president sent out dozens of tweets ,  including some that threatened  10-year prison sentences  for protesters who defile federal monuments and statues, defended his border wall, and  congratulated  his Fox News booster Sean Hannity for a “big night” of viewer ratings on Thursday night, when Trump was his guest. 
  That behavior fits a pattern in Trump's presidency in which the president seemingly has   no interest in or patience for what he considers the boring work of governing, several of his former senior advisers say, speaking on the condition of anonymity.  He was not fully engaged for the hard work of defusing the pandemic, including  l istening to panels of experts, sifting through scientific models and making hard choices to craft a whole-of-government response, an option not seriously considered. 
  In early spring, as his advisers  pushed the reluctant president to  deem the virus  a public health emergency, Trump tried marketing, taking to the White House lectern almost daily to talk about the “ great ” job his administration was doing to tackle the disease, despite a botched  testing launch that put the country way behind the curve in containment.   Trump still routinely  pans testing  as a “double-edged sword,” arguing it only increases the number of confirmed cases and makes his administration “ look bad , ”  while  simultaneously vowing an imminent vaccine. He then tried saddling governors with the responsibility of tamping down the crisis, while calling to “ LIBERATE! ” states that wouldn't move to reopen quickly enough .  Now, he is saying schools  should move  to fully reopen this fall despite major pushback from local officials and teachers unions. 
  That’s come into sharp relief again in the past five days, as the rate of  coronavirus  infections is setting  records,  suggesting  America is back to square one in this health crisis.  
  Coronavirus  deaths are on the rise  in every region of the country. As happened in early spring, the volume of new cases is rising so fast, particularly in the  Sun Belt , that testing  can’t keep up . Receiving rapid test results, quarantining the sick and controlling the virus's spread is proving nearly impossible. Several major school systems and colleges in California are retrenching on their plans to reopen this fall, and announced they will instead have online classes only for the time being. CEOs are preparing for employees to continue working remotely indefinitely after Labor Day, as well.  
  The worsening pandemic cries out for concrete steps from the federal government.  But Trump has stubbornly sought to shift the blame for the situation and  sees himself  as the victim of an unfortunate convergence of circumstances . 
  Though never entirely on the same page as his top  infectious-disease  specialist, the president appeared with Fauci at coronavirus task force briefings, and the two seemed to be communicating earlier in the crisis. But things have clearly changed between the two men, with Trump apparently viewing Fauci’s grim message about burgeoning cases and the dangers of reopening as a threat.   In the midst of the most perilous public health threat in a century, the president hasn’t met with Fauci in over a month. The doctor  slipped into  the White House yesterday, however, to meet with Chief of Staff Mark Meadows as criticism of the administration's bashing of him intensified. 
  In the past five days, as the news has grown more dire and Fauci has refused to sugarcoat it, Trump and his allies have  sought  to cast Fauci as error-prone. 
  In his Thursday interview with Hannity, Trump criticized Fauci as a nice guy who has nevertheless “made a lot of mistakes.” By Monday, Trump’s souring on the doctor had become part of a larger concerted campaign within the White House. A senior White House official anonymously gave  reporters opposition-research-style bullet points  of comments Fauci made about the virus that were described as misleading or inaccurate. They included Fauci’s early advice that people who didn’t feel sick need not wear masks and should preserve the supply for medical workers, and Fauci typically cautioned the situation was evolving. 
  The White House list doesn’t mention Trump's repeated inaccurate and misleading comments about the virus and the government's response, including his claim the U.S.  could reopen safely  by Easter or his recommendation that people with covid-19 could get better by taking  hydroxychloroquine  or possibly by  being treated  with bleach or ultraviolet light. The list didn’t mention when Trump in January insisted the coronavirus was  “ totally under control ” and would create only a few U.S. cases, or when  he said  the number of cases would “go down to zero .”
   “It’s going to disappear,” Trump  said  Feb. 28. “One day it’s like a miracle, it will disappear.” 
  The campaign of presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden on Monday attacked Trump’s effort to blame Fauci. 
  “Over 135,000 Americans have lost their lives and tens of millions have lost their jobs because Donald Trump spent the last six months disastrously mismanaging the worst public health crisis in a century, the whole time failing to heed the warnings and guidance of medical experts  —  particularly Dr. Fauci,” Biden campaign spokesman Andrew Bates said.  
  Trump finds governing tedious, several of his senior former advisers have said. He likes to make decisions on impulse, and later, if those decisions blow up in his face, he tends to blame others for making them. 
  Though Trump repeatedly praised his defense secretary Jim Mattis as one of his best Cabinet picks ever, he later concluded the four-star general was  “overrated”   after he resigned in protest of Trump’s decision to pull U.S. soldiers out of Syria. Trump made the decision on the fly during a phone call when Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan asked him to leave Syria. Mattis felt it was militarily unwise to exit the battlefield, which would just allow Islamic State factions to regain their strongholds. He also considered it unethical to leave America's Kurdish allies in danger, and inexplicable for Trump to grant this gift to Erdogan without any benefit to the United States.  
  When  Trump was in Paris in November 2018  and didn’t want to go to a sacred memorial to fallen American soldiers in World War II, he asked his chief of staff John Kelly and another aide for options. They said he could blame his absence on weather; it would be difficult to clear the streets for his motorcade at the last minute and potentially worrisome to fly by helicopter. But when Trump got terrible press for skipping the event, with some critics asking if he didn’t want to get his hair wet, Trump blamed Kelly, saying he should have talked him into attending. 
  “He never apologizes,” said one former senior adviser who left the Trump administration. “It’s always somebody else’s fault. He can’t take responsibility for any decision.”  
  This March, Trump  blamed  the rules and regulations from the Obama administration for his administration’s inability to test enough Americans for the virus to control its spread at a critical early stage. He didn’t mention that he and his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, had feared that such rapid, emergency testing might be bad for the markets and the economy. 
  “I don't take responsibility at all,” Trump  said . 
  Governing is boring, hard, uncertain. Blaming is infinitely easier. 
  “A letter, to be sent to governors imminently, backs away from earlier drafts as recently as Friday that had directed state leaders to deploy the National Guard to help hospitals with daily data submissions .  It now includes the National Guard among states’ options for improving the data flow, according to two senior administration officials and one industry official who was informed Monday about the final version,”  Lena Sun and Amy Goldstein report.  “Still, even the possibility of National Guard involvement has infuriated hospital industry leaders, who say any data collection problems lie primarily with the Department of Health and Human Services and repeatedly changing federal instructions."
  “Schools in Nashville plan to do the same, at least through Labor Day. Several other big cities were considering similar plans, while others have adopted hybrid plans where students will be in school on certain days and at home on others. Some have announced plans to open five days a week, as the White House has demanded, but they appear to be in the minority,”  Laura Meckler reports . “At the White House Monday, Trump again pressed his case for in-person learning. ‘Schools should be opened,’ he said when asked for his message to worried parents. ‘Schools should be opened. Kids want to go to school. You’re losing a lot of lives by keeping things closed.'"
  “As millions go back to school during the pandemic, the ability of campus health services to safeguard and care for students will be tested as never before — and many colleges appear unprepared for the challenge. To assess the landscape of student health services at roughly 1,700 four-year residential campuses, The Post interviewed more than 200 students, parents and health officials and examined thousands of pages of medical records and court documents and 5,500 reviews of student health centers posted on Google,”  Jenn Abelson, Nicole Dungca, Meryl Kornfield and Andrew Ba Tran report.  “College students reported they commonly waited days or weeks for appointments and were routinely provided lackluster care. Dozens of students ended up hospitalized — and some near death — for mistakes they said were made at on-campus clinics … Many students, including low-income individuals on Medicaid, said they avoided seeking treatment altogether because the care was too costly.”
  Newsom ordered restaurants, wineries, movie theaters and museums to close their indoor operations. Bars have to shut down even for outdoor service , Griff Witte reports.  “Meanwhile, Miami was declared the latest ‘epicenter of the pandemic,’ and a senior medical official compared it to Wuhan at the height of China’s struggles with the virus. … Monday’s figures showed that the virus continues to spread widely beyond the hard-hit Sun Belt states. Virginia, West Virginia, Alaska, Missouri, Hawaii, Rhode Island and Minnesota all saw the average rate of new infections rise between 41 and 55 percent compared with the week of July 6. Colorado, Kentucky, the District of Columbia, Montana, North Dakota and the Virgin Islands saw increases of average new infections at a rate of 63 percent or higher. Sparsely populated North Dakota had a particularly intense week, with the number of infections nearly doubling from 44 to 84.”
  The poll found less than half of Americans are following health officials’ guidance and always covering their nose and mouth while in public. Only 44 percent of American adults say they “always” wear their masks when outside home, with 28 percent saying they do so “very often.” Fourteen percent say they “never” wear a face mask. Majorities of women (54 percent), Democrats (61 percent) and Northeasterners (54 percent) say they always use masks outside their homes, while their counterparts do so less often. A majority of Republicans — 54 percent — said they wear masks infrequently, including 27 percent who said they never do. 
  “‘Vaccines are the permanent hope for controlling this outbreak, but even with success, some people may not respond to vaccines and some may not get vaccinated, so we are always going to need therapeutics,’ said Janet Woodcock, who is leading the therapeutics effort,”  Carolyn Johnson reports . “… Woodcock also emphasized the prospects for monoclonal antibodies, biotechnology drugs that can block the coronavirus and that are moving into large-scale trials this summer, in hopes of determining whether they are effective by fall."
  There’s also a race to produce billions of vials and syringes needed to deliver the vaccine around the world.  “The job of delivering a vaccine to a majority of humans is so vast that global production of pharmaceutical vials needs to be ramped up by 5 to 10 percent within two years, a job the industry says requires immediate preparation and increases in production but is not an insurmountable challenge,”  Christopher Rowland reports .
  An analysis to be released today by the nonpartisan group Families USA “found that the estimated increase in uninsured workers from February to May was nearly 40 percent higher than the highest previous increase, which occurred during the recession of 2008 and 2009, when 3.9 million adults lost insurance,”  the Times reports . “The nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation has estimated that 27 million Americans have lost coverage in the pandemic; that study took into account family members of the insured. Another analysis, published Monday by the Urban Institute and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, projected that by the end of 2020, 10.1 million people will no longer have employer-sponsored health insurance or coverage that was tied to a job they lost because of the pandemic.”  
  “Alexis Herdez has been filing for unemployment every week since April, shortly after she was laid off on her first day of work at a bridal clothing store. But more than two months later, the 23-year-old in Lexington, Ky., has yet to receive any payment,”  Eli Rosenberg reports . “Four months into the worst recession since the Great Depression, tens of thousands of workers like Herdez across the country have filed for jobless claims but have yet to receive payments. Many are now in dire financial straits. ‘We’ve been only able to make half payments on everything,’ Herdez said … ‘We bought a large amount of groceries and have been taking things out of the freezer, but as the weeks go by, it’s hard to figure out whether to pay bills or whether we have enough food to last the week.’ … The ongoing delays are the result of a confluence of crises, experts say. A flood of new jobless applications — about 50 million — has overwhelmed state unemployment offices over the past four months. The agencies themselves are hampered by years of neglect.” 
  “In June 2019, the budget deficit was just $8 billion,”  Jeff Stein reports . “Federal spending rose to more than $1.1 trillion in June, more than twice what the U.S. government spends in a typical month. The amount of tax revenue collected by the federal government remained largely flat, at about $240 billion, in part because the Treasury Department delayed the tax filing deadline until July. The huge surge in June pushed the budget deficit for the first nine months of the fiscal year to $2.7 trillion."
  “The resurgence of the virus, especially in states such as Texas, Florida and California that had begun to reopen, has introduced a far darker reality for many small businesses: Their temporary closures might become permanent. Nearly 66,000 businesses have folded since March 1, according to data from Yelp,”  the Times reports .
  “A state court judge on Monday issued an 11th-hour ruling affirming Simon & Schuster's right to publish an explosive new book by Trump's niece, issuing a decision that prioritizes the First Amendment over a dated confidentiality agreement among members of the Trump family,”  Shayna Jacobs reports . “ The book by Mary L. Trump — ‘Too Much and Never Enough: How My Family Created the World’s Most Dangerous Man’ — is slated for release [today].  Some copies already have been distributed, and the work is already considered a bestseller. … Mary Trump, 55, was sued by her uncle Robert Trump, the president’s brother, in an effort to block publication. He had accused her of violating a confidentiality agreement in an inheritance case settled two decades ago. … In Dutchess County, N.Y., Justice Hal Greenwald said that Simon & Schuster had no obligations under the family’s nondisclosure agreement and that constitutional law ‘trumps contracts.’ … 
  “The forms are supposed to detail Trump’s income, debt, stock holdings and outstanding loans for 2019. They were originally due May 15, but Trump got an extension until the end of June,”  David Fahrenthold and Anu Narayanswamy report.  “On June 29, Scott Gast, deputy counsel to the president, granted Trump a second extension, until Aug. 13, according to the letter. Federal law allows only two such extensions. Gast’s letter said that the extension was given for ‘good cause,’ but did not specify what that cause was. A White House spokesperson said Trump ‘has a complicated report, and he’s been focused on addressing the coronavirus and other matters.’”
  “In a filing late Monday, the House’s top lawyer, Douglas Letter, urged the [Supreme Court] to immediately effectuate their July 9 ruling on the House’s subpoena for Trump’s records. Once the ruling is in force, the House can return to the U.S. District Court judge who initially heard the case and ask for renewed consideration,”  Politico reports.  Last week, “the justices devised a four-part test to determine whether an effort by Congress to obtain the personal papers of a sitting president is proper – and they urged the lower courts to apply this test on any future attempt by lawmakers to get [the records] … Letter noted that the [ruling] would normally take effect on Aug. 3 without the intervention of the justices. The lower courts can’t begin to take up the effort until the Supreme Court ruling takes hold, and the House is urging the justices to make that happen as quickly as possible.” 
  “Senators  Roy Blunt  of Missouri and  Pat Roberts  of Kansas are planning to skip the Republican National Convention next month,” the Times  reports.  “Representatives  Mario Diaz-Balart  and  Francis Rooney  of Florida are sticking with their plans not to attend, even though the convention is now in their home state . Marco Rubio , Florida’s senior senator, has not committed to attending. Neither has  John Thune  of South Dakota, the second-ranking Senate Republican, or Representative  Liz Cheney  of Wyoming, the third-ranking House Republican. …  ‘Everybody just assumes no one is going,’ said Representative Darin LaHood of Illinois, an honorary state co-chairman for the Trump campaign . Mr. LaHood was one of eight House members — from Illinois, New York, Arizona, Indiana and Michigan — [who said] they did not plan to attend. … 
  “Still, even as growing numbers of elected leaders express wariness about attending, a strong contingent of Republican National Committee members — many of whom have their political fortunes tied to Mr. Trump — say they still plan to go . In interviews, more than a dozen of them said they were committed, even ‘proud,’ to celebrate the renomination of Mr. Trump. … The result may be a crowd that is far Trumpier than in 2016 … ‘It’s a risk you have to take,’ said Morton Blackwell, 80, an R.N.C. member from Virginia who has attended every party convention since he was the youngest elected delegate backing Barry Goldwater in 1964. ‘You take risks every day. You drive down the street and a cement truck could crash into you. You can’t not do what you have to do because of some possibility of a bad result.’” 
  “Alabama Republicans, hoping to reclaim a seat they fumbled away three years ago to Sen. Doug Jones (D), have been lukewarm about renominating  Jeff Session s, the former U.S. attorney general, for his old Senate seat and instead are leaning toward former Auburn University football coach  Tommy Tuberville.  And in Texas, Democrats appeared headed toward easily nominating  M.J. Hegar,  an Air Force veteran whose biography nearly helped her win a House seat in 2018, to take on Republican Sen. John Cornyn as he tries to win a fourth term. But a late charge from state Sen. Royce West has prompted outside support to pour in to try to bring Hegar, favored by Democrats in Washington, across the finish line,”  Paul Kane reports. 
  “Whoever emerges from the Sessions-Tuberville race … will be functionally broke. GOP strategists believe Jones, who had raised more than $15 million by March 30 and has been spending on largely positive ads, will immediately launch a sharp negative attack on the Republican nominee, who will be scrambling to raise money for the general election. … Maine holds its House and Senate primaries Tuesday …  Sara Gideon, the State House speaker, is the prohibitive favorite to win the Democratic nomination to challenge Sen. Susan Collins (R) in the general election .”
  Democrats are setting their sights on expanding their hold on the House amid GOP troubles.   “The shift in fortunes marks a turnabout for House Democrats, who originally predicted trouble for 31 members representing seats Trump won in 2016,”  Rachael Bade reports . “But Trump’s political standing in many of those same districts has fallen, as Biden has taken a clear lead in public polling. Plus, 37 of the most vulnerable front-line Democrats raised more than $500,000 last quarter, with 34 now stockpiling more than $2 million cash on hand, according to the DCCC.” 
  “At least 65,000 absentee or mail-in ballots have been rejected because they arrived past the deadline, often through no fault of the voter,”  NPR reports . “While the numbers are relatively small — around 1% in most states — they could prove crucial in a close election, especially one in which many more voters are expected to cast absentee and mail-in ballots to avoid going to the polls during a pandemic.” 
  Maxwell, who is accused of grooming girls for Jeffrey Epstein, “sought to evade FBI detection by using former British military personnel as personal security and wrapping her cellphone in tin foil in an apparent anti-tracing attempt, federal prosecutors alleged. When the FBI moved on Maxwell at her estate in New Hampshire about two weeks ago, agents had to break down the door and found Maxwell hiding in a room in the interior of the home, according to a new court filing from the government opposing her release on bail,”  Shayna Jacobs reports . “The U.S. attorney’s office for the Southern District of New York has maintained that Maxwell, who has citizenship in three countries including the United States, is a flight risk. She was tracked down at the secluded estate in Bradford, N.H., and arrested July 2.”  
  After a judge ruled that she's free to talk about her family and her tell-all book, Mary Trump shared a nod to another hectic week in Washington: 
  This was her first tweet in two years.
  Trump said a Biden presidency will be terrible for TV ratings: 
  And New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) unveiled this poster illustrating New York’s experience during the pandemic. Details include Trump as the “man in the moon” and something called the “boyfriend cliff”: 
  Trevor Noah said the coronavirus is the only thing in 2020 “that hasn’t been canceled”: 
 