with Mariana Alfaro
  With Mariana Alfaro 
  Acting Navy secretary Thomas Modly said over the weekend that he moved swiftly to relieve Capt. Brett Crozier from command of the USS Theodore Roosevelt because he didn’t want President Trump to get involved after Crozier's letter sounding the alarm about the spread of the novel  coronavirus  on the aircraft carrier leaked to the media.
  Well, that did not work.
  Trump announced on Monday evening that he’s going to “get involved” in the case and “look at it in great detail.” He said he spent time earlier in the day reviewing Crozier’s personnel file and recounted several details of his distinguished military career. 
  “I'm going to get involved and see exactly what's going on there because I don't want to destroy somebody for having a bad day,” the president said during his daily coronavirus briefing. “You have two good people and they're arguing and, believe it or not, I'm good at settling arguments.”
  Modly got his job because Richard V. Spencer was  fired  as Navy secretary last year over  his handling  of the president’s personal involvement in the case of Navy SEAL Eddie Gallagher. Modly, the service’s top politically appointed official, said Spencer let the Navy get “crossways with the president” and  told  columnist David Ignatius: “I didn’t want that to happen again.” Explaining why he did not wait for an investigation, Modly said: “I didn’t want to get into a decision where the president would feel that he had to intervene because the Navy couldn’t be decisive.”
  This donnybrook plunges the Navy into  another political crisis , with a chorus of Democratic lawmakers  calling  for Modly’s resignation, while drawing fresh attention to the growing strain in civil-military relations under the Trump administration.
  Modly, visiting the carrier in a Guam port, told the sailors that the leaked letter was a “betrayal.” These were the same sailors who  cheered  Crozier last week as he exited the ship down a literal gangplank.
  “If he didn’t think information was going to get out into the public in this information age that we live in, then he was either A, too naive or too stupid to be the commanding officer of a ship like this,” Modly said. “The alternate is that he did it on purpose, and that’s a serious violation of the Uniform Code of Military Justice, which you are all familiar with.”
  Task & Purpose published  15 minutes of audio  from Modly’s remarks, which included profanity.
  A few hours after Trump said he will get involved, Modly issued a statement apologizing to the Navy for his comments. But it sounded passive-aggressive and even backhanded. “Let me be clear, I do not think Captain Brett Crozier is naive nor stupid. I think, and always believed him to be the opposite,” Modly said. “I believe, precisely because he is not naive and stupid, that he sent his alarming email with the intention of getting it into the public domain in an effort to draw public attention to the situation on his ship. I apologize for any confusion this choice of words may have caused.”
  Crozier has tested positive for the coronavirus. At least 172 of the remaining crew of 4,800 are also infected.
  Trump reiterated on Monday that Crozier should not have sent an unclassified letter drawing attention to the Navy’s lack of urgency in dealing with the outbreak aboard his ship, but his tone has shifted markedly since the weekend. “I thought it was terrible, what he did, to write a letter,” Trump said on Saturday. “I mean, this isn’t a class on literature. This is a captain of a massive ship that’s nuclear powered.”
  In the interim, there’s been growing outcry from military families and veterans over the ouster of Crozier. “I must tell you,” Trump said on Monday, “I have heard very good things about the gentleman.”
  In 1898, Teddy Roosevelt  famously  wrote  a letter  expressing concern that the Rough Riders he commanded would get the yellow fever and die from malaria if they were not evacuated from Cuba as the Spanish-American War came to an end. This incensed political leaders in Washington, including then-Secretary of War Russell Alger, but a strategic leak of the letter to the Associated Press created a public outcry and prompted the retrieval of the men – probably saving lives.
  "Alger was furious with him. When Roosevelt’s nomination came up for a Medal of Honor, the secretary shot it down (Roosevelt eventually received the medal, posthumously, in 2001). Of course, Roosevelt came out the winner,” Tweed Roosevelt, a great-grandson of Theodore Roosevelt, recalls in  an op-ed  for the New York Times. “Who today remembers Russell Alger?”
  A century from now, who will remember Thomas Modly?
  At least 10,993 people  have died  from the virus in the United States, and at least 368,000 cases have been reported. Of the dead, 4,758 people were from New York. “The coronavirus body count in New York state held steady Monday for the second consecutive day at about 600 deaths — a once-unthinkable statistic that now gives officials some cautious reason to hope that the pandemic may be cresting there,”  Ben Guarino, Tim Craig and Devlin Barrett report . “Two days of data is not nearly enough to identify a trend, but officials said there were other glimmers of hope, including significant declines in the past two days in the number of new people hospitalized, admitted to intensive care units and intubated. New York remains the most severe area for the coronavirus outbreak in the United States, with more than 130,000 residents testing positive for the virus, far more than any other state. Officials cautioned that it is impossible to know whether New York has indeed reached the apex or whether the recent numbers are only a lull before worse ones.”
  The Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington, which is used by the White House to chart the pandemic’s progression, projects that the United States may need fewer hospital beds, ventilators and other equipment than previously estimated, and that some states may reach their peak sooner than expected. However, experts and leaders continued to steel themselves for grim weeks ahead, noting that the IHME model conflicts with many other models that show higher equipment shortages, deaths and projected peaks. “Some state leaders have also grown increasingly concerned about how the federal government is using IHME’s lower estimates to deny states’ increasingly desperate requests for equipment and help in preparations,"  William Wan and Carolyn Johnson report.  "The danger of relying so heavily on one model is that model could be wrong or overly optimistic. … In the two weeks since IHME’s model was originally released — the researchers announced revisions Monday — it has been criticized by some experts as overly optimistic. 
  "But even critics are quick to note that in the absence of any tool offered by the federal government and with no other model offering nationwide state-by-state estimates, IHME could be a lifesaver. … While the [IHME] original model relied only on Wuhan’s curve, the updated model now incorporates curves from seven regions from Italy and Spain where epidemics have also peaked. The newer version also found that deaths in some states — such as Florida, Virginia, Louisiana and West Virginia — could peak earlier than previous projections. But the deaths nationally were still projected to peak April 16.”
  “Some hospitals are so desperate for protective masks that they are scrounging them from auto-body shops and nail salons … At least one hospital is making its own hand sanitizer by mixing gel used for ultrasounds with alcohol from a nearby distillery,”  Amy Goldstein reports . “In substantiating complaints about inadequate equipment, it essentially counters assertions by Trump that hospitals and state officials advocating for them are being greedy. … Hospitals also reported that they cannot always maintain enough staff on duty and that the pandemic is ‘taking an emotional toll’ on doctors and other medical workers.”
  “As of Monday, 33 of the 45 residents who died of covid-19 in Milwaukee County were black, according to the medical examiner. That's 73 percent, though black residents made up fewer than half of the county's coronavirus infections and about 28 percent of the total county population,”  Robert Samuels reports . “The disparity is even more glaring when looking statewide: Black residents here represent nearly half of the coronavirus-related deaths in Wisconsin, a state that is 6 percent black. … 
  "The city’s mayor, Tom Barrett, said officials are trying to address the disparity. He said that the county was quick to identify the trend, as one of the few jurisdictions in the United States collecting data related to race. … The biggest challenge, though, is how to stop the spread. Barrett said the city is trying new ways to relay the risks of the virus and the importance of social distancing. That’s difficult when communicating through churches and community meetings is no longer an option.”
  In Chicago, black Americans account for 68 percent of the city’s 118 deaths and 52 percent of the roughly 5,000 confirmed coronavirus cases, despite making up just 30 percent of the city’s population.  That means they are dying at a rate nearly six times higher than that of white Chicagoans. Mayor Lori Lightfoot (D) launched an urgent public-health outreach campaign in the minority communities worst-hit by the virus, dispatching a team to mitigate the impact in those neighborhoods. ( Meagan Flynn ) 
  “The decision came the same day Evers (D) issued the order, which had prompted an immediate legal challenge from Republican lawmakers who argued that postponing the election would sow confusion. In a 4-to-2 decision, the state court offered no explanation for the ruling,”  Amy Gardner, Elise Viebeck and Dan Simmons report . “The rapid-fire series of developments unleashed a torrent of confusion across Wisconsin. After Evers issued the order, some local governments announced that voting was canceled, while state officials urged election clerks to proceed as if the polls would open. … The U.S. Supreme Court on Monday blocked a lower court’s six-day extension of the receipt deadline for mailed ballots, turning aside pleas from Democrats that thousands of the state’s voters will be disenfranchised because of disruptions caused by the pandemic. The ruling was 5 to 4, with the court’s conservatives in the majority.”
  “Data released in the District — which for the first time Monday included a breakdown by race — showed that deaths are disproportionately concentrated among black residents,"  Rachel Chason, Fenit Nirappil, Jenna Portnoy and John Harden report . "Officials said that hospitals are seeing increases in the number of patients who need critical care but that the medical facilities are not overwhelmed.” There are 8,028 confirmed cases in Maryland, Virginia and the District. In D.C., 34 members of the fire department, including an assistant chief, and 23 members of the police force have tested positive. More than 430 first responders from both departments are quarantined, per  Peter Hermann and Darran Simon. 
  Hundreds on board the Coral Princess cruise ship, parked in Florida, still don’t know when they’re coming to shore.  Passenger Wilson Maa, 71, died after waiting more than four hours aboard the ship before getting an ambulance. The Miami-Dade mayor said the cruise line broke protocol by not calling 911. ( Miami Herald )
  “After 14 days of battling the Mephistophelean virus, I finally won,”  writes Michael Saag , 64, an infectious disease specialist who leads the University of Alabama at Birmingham’s Center for AIDS Research. “The cumulative effect over time was draining, both physically and spiritually. … During those long, Rod Serling-like nights, I wasn’t sure whether I would make it to the next morning without having to be hospitalized, and worse, end up on a ventilator. This fear of what might lie ahead lurks in the nighttime fog of every covid-19 patient.”
  “I wasn’t scared. Until I started gasping for breath,”  writes Bloomberg News editor Paula Dwyer . “Now I’m fully recovered, after going through hell … I couldn’t keep food or liquids down. I was vomiting up over-the-counter medicines. I alternated between Tylenol as a fever-reducer and Advil as an anti-inflammatory, but I don’t think they stayed in my stomach long enough to work. One thing this coronavirus does is jolt your immune system into overdrive. Muscles and joints become inflamed, and, oh boy, does that hurt. I could barely move my neck. I could barely roll over in bed. I could barely walk from the kitchen to the living room.”
  “Fox host Laura Ingraham and two doctors who are regular on-air guests in what she dubs her ‘medicine cabinet’ visited the White House last Friday for a private meeting with Trump to talk up the drug,”  Philip Rucker, Bob Costa, Laurie McGinley and Josh Dawsey report.  “Never mind that hydroxychloroquine is an unproven treatment for covid-19 and is still in the testing stages, or that it has dangerous side effects for some, or that medical professionals are divided on its capability. The infectious-disease expert on Trump’s coronavirus task force, Anthony S. Fauci, has privately pleaded with the president to be more cautious. But Trump — who famously has said he trusts his gut more than anything an expert could counsel him — is again letting his impulses guide what he tells a locked-down nation eager to return to normal. … Trump’s focus on hydroxychloroquine stems from a place of desperation and an optimism that the drug will work, even if the science is not conclusive, allies said. As one person put it, ‘The president lives in a world of wishes and hope.’”
  She’s  leaving the job  without ever holding a formal, on-camera news briefing and will return to the East Wing as first lady Melania Trump's chief of staff. It’s part of a shakeup, orchestrated by new White House chief of staff Mark Meadows, of the communications team. “Meadows is currently considering several candidates for the press secretary job, including Trump campaign spokeswoman Kayleigh McEnany,”  per CNN . “The new chief of staff is also considering hiring Alyssa Farah, the current spokeswoman for the Defense Department, for a communications role."
  Trump’s top trade adviser delivered the warning in a high-level memo. “Dated Jan. 29, it came during a period when Mr. Trump was playing down the risks to the United States,"  the New York Times reports . "In one worst-case scenario cited in the memo, more than a half-million Americans could die. A second memo that Mr. Navarro wrote, dated Feb. 23, warned of an ‘increasing probability of a full-blown COVID-19 pandemic that could infect as many as 100 million Americans, with a loss of life of as many as 1.2 million souls.’ At that time, Mr. Trump was still downplaying the threat.”
  “House Democrats are eyeing a package of spending increases that would ‘easily’ cost more than $1 trillion, Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) told lawmakers Monday,”  Erica Werner and Mike DeBonis report.  “Democrats are looking to extend unemployment aid and small-business assistance for additional months, as well as authorize another round of direct checks to taxpayers. Trump has signaled support for some of the ideas that Democrats back, such as expanded help for small-business owners and new bailout checks for households. Republican leaders, meanwhile, have also called for more corporate aid and money to boost the overwhelmed health-care system. The rushed effort comes as the economy’s fortunes appear tethered to political decisions in Washington.”
  “I can’t say anything that I would have done differently,” she said. “A detailed summary prepared by the senator’s office of the couple’s stock sales shows they add up to $1.8 million, a figure closer to the low end of the range she’d reported. In isolation, those sales could support a pandemic-profiteer narrative,”  Manuel Roig-Franzia reports . “But, as it turns out, Loeffler’s husband was making bullish moves at the same time, betting that the market would go up a few months later, according to previously undisclosed summaries reviewed … Loeffler’s husband committed to puts in stocks … worth almost the same amount as the couple’s stock sales: $1.679 million … The stocks they’ve sold have lost nearly a third of their value, meaning the couple avoided taking a big hit on them. But the put contracts, at least for now, look like bad moves.” 
  “Slotkin was trying the governor, the head of a major auto parts supplier and the CEO of a Detroit bicycle company that imports parts from China in a frantic search for someone who might be able to help her find N95 masks for hospital workers in her district. But it was the owner of a Michigan-based sex toy company who knew a guy who knew a guy who was pretty sure he could get several hundred thousand Food and Drug Administration-certified masks. His connection was standing in a line somewhere in Shandong province,”  Greg Jaffe reports .
  Under a plan being considered, all 30 teams could play in empty stadiums in the greater Phoenix area. Players, coaching staffs and other essential personnel would be sequestered at area hotels, where they would live in relative isolation and travel only to and from the stadium,  ESPN reports. 
  “If ‘back to normal’ means acting like there never was a coronavirus problem, I don’t think that’s going to happen until we do have a situation where you can completely protect the population,” Fauci said at Monday night's briefing. “But I believe, with the therapies that will be coming online, with the fact that I feel confident that over a period of time we will get a good vaccine, that we will never have to get back to where we are right now. So if that means getting back to normal, then we’ll get back to normal.” ( Aaron Blake )
  The British prime minister has had some oxygen support in intensive care at St. Thomas’s Hospital but is not on a ventilator, Cabinet Office Minister Michael Gove said this morning,  Jennifer Hassan reports . Gove went into isolation himself today after a family member began displaying symptoms of the virus, broadcaster ITV reported. Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab is currently standing in for Johnson “where necessary” and holds the power to run the British government during this health crisis, if required. There are 52,000 confirmed cases of the virus in Britain, with 5,373 recorded deaths. 
  “In Somalia, Asha Mohamed Ahmed no longer receives the $400 her daughter used to provide from working at a Minneapolis hotel to cover the family’s monthly bills. And in Mexico, Rosy worries how she will afford to buy medicine for her diabetic mother without the money her brother used to send before being furloughed at an Idaho ranch,”  Sudarsan Raghavan, Max Bearak and Kevin Sieff report . “Billions of dollars in remittances from wealthier nations to poorer ones may be vanishing, threatening the welfare of millions of families globally and the health of their countries in the months ahead, economists say.”
  David Clark drove his family to the beach amid a national lockdown. “At a time when we are asking New Zealanders to make historic sacrifices I’ve let the team down,” Clark said in a statement. “I’ve been an idiot.” ( Siobhán O’Grady )
  New Zealand is not only flattening the curve – it’s squashing it. The number of new cases has fallen for two consecutive days, despite a huge increase in testing, with 54 confirmed or probable cases reported Tuesday. That means the number of people who have recovered, 65, exceeds the number of daily infections. Despite this, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern is adamant that New Zealand will complete four weeks of lockdown before letting up. ( Anna Fifield ) 
  Arden assured her nation’s little ones, though, that the Easter Bunny and the Tooth Fairy have been categorized as “essential workers." Ardern, who has a 21-month-old daughter, asked kids to be understanding if the Easter Bunny is not able to make all of his usual stops this Sunday. ( CBS News )
  Four years ago, Hassan Akkad fled Syria war for London:
  A Fox affiliate in Cleveland came up with a new segment:
  And someone started an Instagram account to collect pictures of Debbie Birx’s impressive collection of scarves (or are they shawls?):
  Seth Meyers looked at the ways Trump continues to contradict experts:
  Stephen Colbert and Lady Gaga announced an online concert featuring Paul McCartney, Elton John, Stevie Wonder and other artists that will benefit health-care workers:
  And New Yorkers continue cheering for health-care workers every evening:
 