with Paulina Firozi
  THE LIGHTBULB 
  One of the biggest sticking points to emerge in the fight over the  coronavirus stimulus package  is how to prop up the nation's energy sector, struggling from a glut of oil and plummeting prices during the spreading epidemic. 
  Democrats were seeking a litany of subsidies for clean energy businesses to help renewable energy projects facing new economic headwinds from the viral outbreak. Republicans want to help keep the U.S. oil and gas sector afloat by buying fuel to fill a massive government reserve.
  “We're here trying to fight for the man and woman on the street in our hometowns," Sen. John Barrasso (R-Wyo.), chair of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, said on the Senate floor Monday, “and yet they're fighting for the Green New Deal."
  Here is what the two sides are fighting over when it comes to energy policy:
  Yet environmentalists, scientists and others concerned about climate change say the stimulus package offers a rare chance to nudge the economy  toward cleaner ways of producing power and transporting people and goods. Eight Democratic senators, led by Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), took up that call and urged congressional leaders in  a letter  last week to make sure major airlines address air pollution as part of an aid package.
  "We have two curves we need to quickly bend downward," Fatih Birol, executive director of the International Energy Agency,  told Brady Dennis and Steven Mufson . “One is the  coronavirus  infections, and the second is global emissions — neither of them will be easy.”
  But such environmental measures have few paths forward in the GOP-controlled Senate , where Republicans  time and again  have opposed including clean-energy tax breaks in larger legislative packages since Trump has taken office. Democratic leaders are not asking for measures included in the Green New Deal, such as a jobs guarantee and a complete transition to net-zero emissions in electricity generation — but that has not stopped Republicans from slapping that moniker on Democrats' requests for the coronavirus response.
  Still, there is precedent for an oil-for-renewables deal of this sort : In 2015, Democrats agreed to lift a decades-old moratorium on oil exports in exchange for a suite of tax breaks meant to kickstart solar, wind and other renewable energy projects.
  Talks between Schumer and Treasury Secretary  Steve Mnuchin  went well into the evening Monday and wrapped up shortly before midnight. Both left the Capitol without a deal in hand, though they were “optimistic they could announce one Tuesday morning,” Erica Werner, Paul Kane, Rachael Bade and Mike DeBonis  report  — though it's unclear what the energy-related provisions of such a deal would look like.
  Complicating matters even further, however, is House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  (D-Calif.), who offered her own  $2.5 trillion proposal late Monday  that would compel airlines to adhere to new emissions requirements in exchange for $37 billion in grants.
  As lawmakers bickered, the destruction across the U.S. economy continued, with the Dow Jones industrial average  shedding  another 600 points. 
  The energy industry is not being spared from the bloodletting.  The stock value of major fossil fuel firms, as tracked by Standard & Poor's, is  down  more than 60 percent on the year as domestic oil and gas producers begin to struggle to compete with cheaper fuel from Saudi Arabia and Russia. “Oilfield services firms have this week been the first companies to feel the hit from the sharp drop in the price of petroleum,”  Brittney Martin and Will Englund report .
  And the renewable energy sector, though much smaller than the oil and gas industry, is bracing for its own workforce contraction. The wind sector is  estimating  the economic slowdown could lead to the loss of 35,000 wind turbine technicians and other jobs.
  — A shift in focus from climate crisis to coronavirus:  In an online news conference, U.N. Secretary General António Guterres said the pandemic is the world’s top concern, though he urged countries to not forget climate change-related challenges, E&E News  reports . Still, he said all resources should focus on addressing the public health crisis at hand. 
  — California shuts state parking lots to deter beach and park crowds:  California Gov. Gavin Newsom (D) announced the state will close down parking lots at state parks and state beaches after a weekend of crowding, the Los Angeles Times  reports . “We’re going to shut down all state parking lots, and that will go into effect immediately,” Newsom said.
  — Auto manufacturers pitching in on response:  Carmakers in the United States and around the globe have announced efforts to try to build equipment including ventilators.   
  — In other (still troubling) news:  Scientists have discovered the Denman Glacier in east Antarctica is retreating into the deepest undersea canyon in the entire Antarctic ice sheet. 
  — PG&E pleads guilty to involuntary manslaughter more than a year after Camp Fire : California's largest utility will plead guilty to 85 felony counts, including 84 counts of involuntary manslaughter, for its role in California’s deadliest and most destructive wildfire. The blaze, which was sparked by one of the utility’s power lines, razed the town of Paradise and obliterated nearly 19,000 buildings, the San Francisco Chronicle  reports .
  — You can still learn about the weather from home:  The Capital Weather Gang is debuting “Weather School” on Facebook live. Watch yesterday's topic below: 
 