with Paulina Firozi
  THE LIGHTBULB 
  The Trump administration is moving full-steam ahead to allow more drilling for oil and natural gas on public lands — despite the precipitous drop in petroleum prices now undercutting their value. 
  The coronavirus pandemic has  triggered  one of the steepest slides in oil prices in history , with the U.S. energy sector being hit both by an expected surge in production from Saudi Arabia and Russia and a drop in global demand for fuel as airlines cancel flights and factories suspend production in an effort to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus.
  Yet the viral pandemic is not stopping the Trump administration from selling off the right to drill  for more oil and gas while prices remain so low, meaning the government is unlikely to reap the highest market price available for such public assets.
  To wit:
  The upheaval in oil markets and the spread of the virus has led to calls to postpone oil and gas auctions from around 90 conservation groups, including the Defenders of Wildlife and Friends of the Earth, which penned a March 19 letter to Interior Secretary David Bernhardt urging the government suspend upcoming lease sales.
  Randi Spivak, the public lands program director for the Center for Biological Diversity said that sales at this point are giving taxpayers a raw deal.  “The Trump administration is allowing speculators to lease public land for pennies,”  she said.  
  But Conner Swanson, a spokesman for the Interior Department, said that all lease sales “are being evaluated on a case-by-case basis” in light of the virus, adding it is  “unfortunate that these interest groups are playing politics at a time when all Americans need to come together.” 
  Kathleen Sgamma, head of the oil industry group Western Energy Alliance, emphasized that developing federal lands for oil is “a multiyear process” — meaning that parcels leased today will only start producing years from now when the price per barrel may look very different. “The environmental lobby is certainly not letting this crisis go to waste,” she added. 
  Yet it's unclear when the price of oil will pick back up , with the world teetering on the edge of recession and the price war between the Saudis and Russians showing few signs of abating soon. Brent crude oil, the international price benchmark,  fell  from $66 at the start of the year to less than $27 on Friday. And the oil glut could grow to between 800 million and 1.3 billion barrels in the first half of the year,  according to analysts at IHS Markit .  
  In the meantime, it's U.S. shale producers that are  expected to hurt the most  from the global oil glut  — leading the White House to  weigh  coming to their rescue with federal financing for debt-saddled oil and gas firms facing potential bankruptcy. 
  Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has already  signaled  the administration would spend as much as $20 billion to fill the nation’s Strategic Petroleum Reserve and help keep domestic oil businesses afloat.
  — U.S. oil workers are already paying the price:  “Oilfield services firms have this week been the first companies to feel the hit from the sharp drop in the price of petroleum,” Brittney Martin and Will Englund  report . “While the producers have announced spending cutbacks from 30 to 50 percent for the rest of this year, the outfits that do the actual work in the field are cutting hours, cutting pay and laying off workers."
  — Advocates want a greener stimulus:  Environmental groups, climate scientists and solar, wind and battery industries are urging lawmakers to consider the stimulus package meant to address the pandemic-fueled economic decline as an opportunity to boost clean energy. The Senate on Sunday  fell short  of the votes needed to advance the bill.
  — Daily life has stalled amid outbreak — and that means less traffic and lower pollution : In Los Angeles, rush hour has basically vanished. In Seattle, which had one of the country’s earliest outbreaks, air pollution has dropped markedly. “A satellite that detects emissions in the atmosphere linked to cars and trucks shows huge declines in pollution over major metropolitan areas,” the New York Times  reports. 
  — Energy Department backs supercomputer initiative to fight coronavirus:  “The new effort is led by IBM with the backing of computer scientists from leading universities, tech giants including Amazon and Google, and the country’s national research labs,” Tony Romm  reports . “By pooling critical computing power that can perform complex calculations many magnitudes quicker than average consumer-facing devices, epidemiologists and other health experts can ‘discover new treatments and vaccines,’ Trump said at a news conference.” (Amazon chief executive Jeff Bezos owns The Post.)
  — What happens when natural disasters strike during a pandemic?  A whole new set of concerns. If disaster victims pile into shelters, those, too, could become ripe for an outbreak. “The virus is forcing emergency managers to rethink long-held procedures for operating shelters like these in real time. That challenge comes as the nation’s crisis-response work force is already taxed by three years of brutal hurricanes, floods and wildfires, a trend that climate change promises to accelerate,” the New York Times  reports .
  — What to do about all the “social distancing” at national parks:  The Trump administration shuttered some national parks over fears of the  coronavirus  spreading. Then, Interior Secretary David Bernhardt said the administration was waiving fees at some parks to “it a little easier for the American public to enjoy the outdoors in our incredible national parks” at a time when indoor gatherings have been restricted.
  — Don't crowd the Tidal Basin. Find a more secluded place to see cherry blossoms around Washington while on a social distancing walk. “ Out of almost 200,000 street and city park trees that are catalogued by the DDOT Urban Forestry Division, just shy of 9,000 are cherry blossom trees. According to the database, there are about 1,850 of the famed Yoshino cherry trees, plus many other varieties to enjoy,” Ian Livingston  writes . 
 