with Brent D. Griffiths
  Two of the biggest U.S. banks are bracing for a dramatic economic slump even as they plow forward with plans to pay dividends to shareholders.
  JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo laid out what industry critics view as an unsound message in announcing their first-quarter earnings Tuesday.
  On one hand, the financial giants painted a grim picture of the fallout they expect to see from economic shutdown forced by the novel coronavirus. JPMorgan Chase saw its profits slide 69 percent in the first three months of the year, and Wells Fargo’s profit fell nearly 90 percent, as the two collectively set aside nearly $10 billion to cover losses on loans to flailing businesses and households, The Post's Renae Merle  reports .
  And JPMorgan economists painted a grim picture of the downturn ahead, projecting GDP to decline 40 percent this quarter and unemployment to reach 20 percent.
  Yet the banks plan to continue to reward their shareholders by paying out dividends, raising alarms among some watchdogs and former regulators.
  “Banks really don’t know how bad things are going to get over the next three to six weeks and beyond,” says Gregory Gelzinis, a policy analyst at the liberal Center for American Progress. “Given that cloud of uncertainty, paying dividends now is a real mistake.”
  Banks are navigating their second economic emergency in as many decades. Unlike the 2008 financial meltdown, they played no role in precipitating the current crisis. But policymakers now are enlisting the firms as economic first responders, deploying them to the front lines of the massive federal effort to keep small businesses afloat with forgivable loans, for example.
  Industry leaders recognize the moment presents an opportunity to regain some of the public trust they torched over a decade ago. To that end, eight of the biggest U.S. banks  announced  last month they are voluntarily suspending stock buybacks through June, explaining in a statement the move is “consistent with our collective objective to use our significant capital and liquidity to provide maximum support to individuals, small businesses and the broader economy through lending and other important services.”
  But the decision by JPMorgan and Wells Fargo to continue doling out dividends indicates there is a limit, for now, to what the banks will forfeit on their own in the name of maximizing their firefighting capacity.
  Halting buybacks will have a bigger effect on banks’ reserves , the Wall Street Journal’s Telis Demos  notes . “For perspective, adding 2019 buybacks to capital for the biggest U.S. banks would have raised their core equity capital ratios by more than 1 percentage point based on last year’s results, according to S&P Global Market Intelligence data. Adding dividends would have increased them by a further roughly half a point.” 
  Yet dividends represent a significant and growing sum. As Renae  explains , “Among America’s biggest banks, JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo have paid out the most in dividends to shareholders since 2008, about $80 billion each, according to S&P Global Market Intelligence data. Bank of America and Citigroup paid out about $52 billion and $30 billion, respectively, during that period.
  “‘For bank stocks, generous dividends can account for 15 percent to 20 percent of the total return for shareholders, said Ken Leon of CFRA. “ ‘That is where they are drawing a strong line. A lot of investors own those stocks for those dividends.’ ”
  “Our view remains that dividend decisions carry political and policy risk for the big banks. Already, Democrats are attacking the big banks for failing to cut dividends,” Cowen Washington Research Group’s Jaret Seiberg writes in a note.
  And he suggests the payouts could become untenable if banks take advantage of extra wiggle room federal regulators granted them last month to tap capital reserves they are ordinarily required to maintain as protection against a downturn. “Our concern is not that a dividend cut would be forced on the bank,” he writes. “Rather, we don't see how banks can politically explain how they have dipped into a capital buffer, but they still believe it is appropriate to pay common dividends. To us, you could see GOP attacks join the existing Democratic attacks on bank dividend levels if this happened.”
  Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell last week  said  he sees no reason why banks should halt dividends “at this time,” arguing they are “highly capitalized." 
  Already, some former regulators are arguing the industry’s Washington overseers should make the decision on the banks’ behalf by barring them from paying dividends and executive bonuses. 
  Noting that the Bank of England and the European Central Bank have already done so, former Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. chair Sheila Bair  writes  in a Yahoo Finance opinion piece, “Every dollar of capital a big bank distributes to shareholders and top executives is a dollar that does not support credit which struggling businesses and households need. Why hasn’t the Fed put banks under similar restrictions?” 
  Bair continues: “The Fed says it wants banks to expand lending capacity, but the safest way to do that is to require them to retain this capital. Loosening capital requirements, the Fed’s preferred course, expands lending but also weakens banks’ financial stability.  
  “To get through this crisis, our economy needs the combined efforts of government, business, and the financial system. To compensate their shareholders, banks could consider paying dividends in shares, which would not compromise their lending capacity. But they should suspend cash dividends and bonuses until this crisis is over. That would be a good way to prove to a cynical public that Wall Street is capable of putting the public’s interest above its own. Why the Fed does not require them to do so remains a mystery.”
  Or as Sarah Bloom Raskin, a former Fed governor who was deputy treasury secretary in the Obama administration, puts it in an email, “The banks are perceived right now as having received regulatory relief, so the burden is on the regulators to explain why that laxity is justified in the context of the banks' continuing to pay dividends.” 
  Earnings season continues this morning as Goldman Sachs, Citigroup, and Bank of America all report their results. 
  This is an unprecedented decision:  “It will be the first time a president’s name appears on an IRS disbursement, whether a routine refund or one of the handful of checks the government has issued to taxpayers in recent decades either to stimulate a down economy or share the dividends of a strong one.”
  FEMA and the CDC's draft plan to reopen parts of the country:  “A team of government officials — led by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention — has created a public health strategy to combat the novel  coronavirus  and reopen parts of the country,” Lena H. Sun,  Josh Dawsey and William Wan  report . (You can read the full plan  here )
  “Their strategy, obtained by The Washington Post, is part of a larger White House effort to draft a national plan to get Americans out of their homes and back to work. It gives guidance to state and local governments on how they can ease mitigation efforts, moving from drastic restrictions such as stay-at-home orders in a phased way to support a safe reopening.”
  Trump unveils his “Opening the Country” council.  The list of business executives the president  plans to consult “were some of the most prominent names of Wall Street and Silicon Valley,” the NYT's Annie Karni and Maggie Haberman  report . “Those included  Jamie Dimo n, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase;  Stephen A. Schwarzman , the chief executive of Blackstone;  Tim Cook , the chief executive of Apple; and  Mark Zuckerberg,  the chief executive of Facebook, who he implied would be acting as consultants to his administration." But at least one person on the list said the administration hadn't asked first and gave no heads-up on the announcement. 
  Some of the other top financial services executives the White House is naming ,  per Politico : Bank of America's  Brian Moynihan ; Goldman Sachs's  David Solomon ; Citigroup's  Michael Corbat ; Wells Fargo's  Charles Scharf ; Morgan Stanley's  James Gorman ; Paulson & Co.'s  John Paulso n; Citadel's  Ken Griffin ; Elliott Management' s Paul Singer ;  Robert Smith  of Vista Equity Partners;  Abigail Johnson  of Fidelity Investments; Mastercard's  Ajay Banga ; and Visa's  Al Kelly . 
  Trump set off a White House scramble by claiming “total authority” over ending the shutdown:  “The president’s claim, first conveyed in a tweet Monday morning and underscored at a White House news conference and subsequent social media posts, caught his aides off guard and prompted them to study whether Trump would have such authority in a time of emergency like the ongoing pandemic,” Seung Min Kim, Josh Dawsey and Brady Dennis  reports .
  “At a White House briefing late Tuesday, Trump offered conflicting statements about which entity had the authority to reopen, seeming to backtrack from his claim Monday but at the same time insisting the federal government would have the final say …Earlier in the day, Trump’s comments on reopening the nation were challenged by his presumptive Democratic rival this fall, former vice president  Joe Biden , and also by prominent governors overseeing the public health crisis in their states such as New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, who in his daily news conference Tuesday skewered at length Trump’s position as wildly off-base from the Constitution.”
  Ten major airlines have agreed to accept $25 billion in grants:  “Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said Tuesday that Alaska Airlines, Allegiant Air, American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Frontier Airlines, Hawaiian Airlines, JetBlue Airways, United Airlines, SkyWest Airlines and Southwest Airlines have all indicated they would participate in the program, part of the $2 trillion economic stimulus program signed by [Trump] last month,” Lori Aratani and Ian Duncan  report .
  “Mnuchin’s statement did not include details of the agreement. However, individuals close to the discussions, who were not authorized to speak publicly, said under the terms of the deal 70 percent of the money would be given to the airlines outright and 30 percent would have to be paid back to the government. In addition, the government would be given warrants equal to 10 percent of the amount the carriers receive, these individuals said."
  Investors are not looking backward:  “ Instead, investors are focused on giant new lending programs from the Federal Reserve, trillions in stimulus from the government and the  latest statistics  on cases of the virus, which show some signs of leveling off or easing,” Bloomberg News's  Steve Matthews, Sarah Ponczek, and Vivien Lou Chen  report .
  “This week traders’ eyes also are pointed at company earnings, and the forward guidance that comes with them, to help assess the pace of a rebound. Many are looking ahead optimistically and betting that some form of economic recovery will come into view soon as government officials plot how to allow companies to restart operations … The extreme bull case says there is no choice but to write off 2020 and focus instead on first signs of the recovery. That assumes, though, there will be a swift rebound in economic activity and little structural damage to the major corporations that make up the S&P 500 Index.”
  Consumer staples are showing cracks:  “ A broad rebound in U.S. stocks is leaving behind shares of some supermarkets, household product makers and other staples companies that provided a haven in last month’s coronavirus-fueled selloff,” Reuters's  Lewis Krauskopf  reports . “The sector could stall if investors believe that unprecedented stimulus efforts from the Federal Reserve and more than $2 trillion in government bailouts can help the economy recover quickly from the damage caused by the lockdowns that have accompanied the coronavirus.” 
  Trump is claiming victory in the market's partial recovery from its recent lows: 
  The IMF is forecasting a long, difficult recovery around the world . “The International Monetary Fund on Tuesday said the coronavirus pandemic is causing the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression of the 1930s, as a return to normal activity in the United States appeared likely to take months longer than [Trump] has indicated,” David Lynch  reports . “World output over the next two years will fall $9 trillion short of what was expected before the crisis, akin to having both the German and Japanese economies vanish, said Gita Gopinath, the fund’s chief economist.”
  This is Biden's most significant endorsement yet:  “Joe Biden’s week-long rollout of endorsements from a series of boldfaced political names is intended to emphatically place him as the leader of a Democratic Party whose factions are newly allied against a common opponent: [Trump],” Sean Sullivan, Annie Linskey and Michael Scherer  report .
  “Biden won the public embrace of his most significant supporter yet: former president Barack Obama. In a video that served as part endorsement and part political blueprint, Obama called on Americans to unite in a ‘great awakening’ in November and attested that his former vice president ‘has the character and the experience to guide us through one of our darkest times and heal us through a long recovery.’ ”
  Democratic bundlers struggle to find time to help Biden as they contend with coronavirus (CNBC) 
  That finding comes from a report from a nonpartisan congressional body:  “The provision, inserted into the legislation by Senate Republicans, temporarily suspends a limitation on how much owners of businesses formed as ‘pass-through’ entities can deduct against their nonbusiness income, such as capital gains, to reduce their tax liability. The limitation was created as part of the 2017 Republican tax law to offset other tax cuts to firms in that legislation,” Jeff Stein  reports .
  More than 80 percent of the benefits will go to those who earn more than $1 million annually, according to the Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT), the nonpartisan congressional body. “Suspending the limitation will cost taxpayers about $90 billion in 2020 alone, part of a set of tax changes that will add close to $170 billion to the national deficit over the next 10 years, [the JCT found].”
  Today: 
  Thursday: 
  Friday: 
 