Are you a banker aiming to grant loans under the SBA program — or the owner of a small business seeking one? If so, we’d love to hear your story. Please send me a note at  tory.newmyer@washpost.com . Thanks for reading Finance 202. And if you haven’t yet, you can  sign up here  and forward our daily economic policy tipsheet to friends, family and colleagues. 
  with Brent D. Griffiths
  THE TICKER 
  Small-business owners desperate for a federal lifeline seem poised to instead encounter chaos and a slew of questions about accessing loans aimed at keeping them running during the  coronavirus  pandemic.  The upshot is that some banks expected to distribute the loans, including some major names, won't yet participate in the program.
  Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin vowed from the White House podium yesterday that small businesses battered by the coronavirus epidemic could access $350 billion in taxpayer-backed cash quickly starting on Friday.  But as the rescue effort debuts, banks are concerned in part about how to assess the risks of small businesses applying for assistance directly to them, even as the federal government is guaranteeing those loans.
  JPMorgan Chase, for instance,  posted a notice  online that it won't be accepting applications from prospective borrowers. “ Financial institutions like ours are still awaiting guidance from the SBA and the U.S. Treasury,” it said.  
  Banks are asking questions about  the length of the loans, the interest rates they can charge, and how much due diligence financial institutions are responsible for performing on borrowers
  Mnuchin attempted to tamp down criticism from the White House briefing room yesterday evening, flanked by SBA Administer Jovita Carranza. He said the pair talked into the wee hours of Wednesday morning with the banks expected to do the heavily lifting under the “Paycheck Protection Program” authorized in the $2.2 trillion coronavirus stimulus legislation.
  The Treasury Department, after blowing through several assurances to deliver banks guidance provided some ground rules on the program Thursday night, less than six hours before the effort was set to launch. “We now need to execute,” Mnuchin told reporters at a White House media briefing. “I've been assured that the banks will start lending tomorrow,” though he acknowledged not every borrower immediately would be able to secure a loan.   
  He tweeted a link to the application late Thursday night: 
  Industry groups are pleading for patience.  “Having just received guidance outlining how to implement a $349 billion program literally hours before it starts, we would ask for everyone to be patient as banks move heaven and earth to get a system in place and running to help America’s small businesses and the millions of men and women who work at them,” Consumer Bankers Association chief Richard Hunt said in a statement. And American Bankers Association president Rob Nichols cautioned it “will take some time before it’s fully functioning.”
  Brock Blake, chief executive of the Salt Lake City-based financial technology company Lendio, tweeted his exasperation: 
  From Rep. Don Beyer (D-Va.): 
  The administration has a vanishing margin of error as it scrambles to preserve the small businesses employing  about half  the country’s private-sector workforce . Weekly jobless claims are  skyrocketing . Last week, 6.6 million Americans filed for unemployment benefits — a number equal to all the jobs the economy added in the first three years of President Trump’s term. At least 10 million Americans have lost their jobs in the past two weeks, a record-breaking sum that economists say implies the unemployment rate has already surged to 10 percent.
  Small businesses, defined as those with fewer than 500 employees, have been on the front line absorbing the economic shock set off by the coronavirus shutdown.  The loans will offer them “ultralow interest rates, no payments for the first six months and the opportunity to have the loan completely forgiven  if employees can be kept on payroll throughout the crisis,” my colleagues Aaron Gregg and Renae Merle  write . “And the loans will apply to a broad swath of the U.S. business community, including an array of businesses, sole proprietors and independent contractors.”
  The government, they write, “is guaranteeing 100 percent of the loan’s value, meaning banks are repaid by taxpayers if the business fails to repay the loan.” And the administration announced it was easing the work participating banks need to do to verify borrower information. “But community banks are also concerned about the low interest rate, which was increased from 0.5 percent to 1 percent following complaints from banking associations. The law allows for a maximum interest rate of 4 percent.”
  Headaches will persist for borrowers, too.  Small businesses face the specter that the pot of money will dry up too fast — and that the tweaks administration officials are making  will make it less helpful as they struggle to operate.
  One issue, Cowen Research’s Jaret Seiberg writes in a note, is the program requires that borrowers "must intend to use at least 75% of the proceeds for payroll regardless of whether the business seeks loan forgiveness. That limits the ability to use these loans to pay rent and keep the lights on until the COVID-19 crisis eases.” And that, in turn, will have the practical effect of rendering the program “more about keeping workers from collecting unemployment insurance for eight weeks than it is prepping these business for the recovery.”
  —  More on those staggering job losses,  from   my colleague Heather Long: " The past two weeks have erased nearly all the jobs created in the past five years… Many economists say the real number of people out of work is probably even higher, since a lot of newly unemployed Americans haven’t been able to fill out a claim yet." 
  —  Gains on Wall Street produced a jarring split screen with the carnage in the real economy . As job losses piled up, investors were cheered by news of a possible Russia-Saudi oil deal: “U.S. stocks vaulted to big gains Thursday on word that Saudi Arabia and Russia may slash crude output by 10 million barrels a day. The cuts could chart a path toward restoring the hardest-hit sector of the economy, and the news came as markets were digesting bitter unemployment numbers,” my colleague Thomas Heath  reports .
  “The Dow Jones industrial average soared more than 500 points Thursday shortly after [Trump] told CNBC that Russia and Saudi Arabia had agreed to consider significant production cuts. Trump said he had spoken with Russian President Vladimir Putin and Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman about the need to stabilize oil prices, which have fallen roughly 60 percent in the past month.”
  Trump doesn't plan on asking U.S. oil producers for cuts:  “ The United States will not ask U.S. domestic oil companies for a coordinated cut in production to counter a historic meltdown in global prices and is still awaiting the details of planned cuts in Saudi Arabia and Russia, a senior administration official told Reuters,” Jeff Mason  reports . 
  “ The official said the United States cannot orchestrate a mandated cut in domestic production and noted that U.S. companies had already cut production in response to a collapse in market demand. They did not have to be asked to cut, the official said.” 
  U.S. Jobs Report Likely to Show Start of Record Labor-Market Collapse (WSJ) 
  Fed balance sheet increases to record $5.86 trillion (Reuters) 
  In the United States: 
  Corporate fallout:  
  —  Bailouts won't come with all the requirements Democrats promised:  “Most big companies that take advantage of the $500 billion corporate bailout in last week’s coronavirus relief bill are unlikely to face restrictions against firing workers or giving bonuses to executives, according to officials familiar with the program,” Politico's Michael Grunwald  reports .
  “Congressional Democrats have boasted about the strict conditions they negotiated to make sure the CARES Act’s massive corporate-aid package benefits employees rather than their bosses. And the bipartisan legislation that [Trump] signed Friday did attach tight strings to the $46 billion the Treasury Department will dispense to airlines and firms it deems vital to national security. But the other $454 billion in the law for larger firms will flow through Federal Reserve lending programs, and people close to the Fed say its top officials don’t think they’re required to force companies that get the money to keep workers on their payrolls, limit executive compensation or forgo stock buybacks or dividends.” 
  International fallout: 
  —  Pelosi announces select committee to help manage the stimulus:  “House Speaker Nancy Pelosi announced the creation of a new select committee with subpoena powers to scrutinize the Trump administration’s response to the coronavirus pandemic, and its management of the new $2 trillion economic rescue law," my colleagues Erica Werner and Paul Kane  report .
  “Pelosi’s announcement comes amid growing clashes between congressional Democrats and the Trump administration about oversight of the new rescue legislation and a $500 billion fund controlled by the Treasury Department. [Trump] has to appoint a new inspector general to oversee that fund but has already signaled opposition to the scope of that person’s mandate."
  Trump lashed out at the prospect of more oversight:  “Without specifically mentioning Pelosi or her new committee, [Trump] bristled at the prospect of additional congressional investigations. 'This is not the time for politics, endless partisan investigations. Here we go again. ... It’s a witch hunt after a witch hunt,' Trump said at the daily briefing of his coronavirus task force. Speaking at the same briefing, [Mnuchin] said he viewed the new committee as unnecessary, given layers of oversight already built into the rescue legislation.”
  Trump’s Company Seeks to Ease Financial Crunch as Coronavirus Takes Toll (NYT) 
  Coronavirus Costing Trump Properties Over $1 Million Daily in Lost Revenue (WSJ) 
  Trump’s Net Worth Drops $1 Billion As Coronavirus Infects The President’s Business (Forbes) 
  Here's a stunning animation illustrating the scale of the unprecedented job destruction the U.S. has seen in the last two weeks, via Daily Telegraph editor Ben Riley-Smith: 
  Today: 
 