with Brent D. Griffiths
  A rising tide of anti-China sentiment in Washington amid the  coronavirus  pandemic is swamping the economic detente the Trump administration reached with Beijing just months ago. 
  The economic crisis is fueling a new push by China hawks to de-link the world’s two largest economies. American multinational corporations with major operations in China risk getting squeezed in the process. 
  Some Republicans in particular, both in the administration and on Capitol Hill, are seizing on the Chinese government’s mishandling of the original outbreak of the coronavirus to argue the regime can’t be trusted. They are moving to deploy both policy carrots and sticks to bring supply chains back to the United States, limit American investment in China and erect new barriers to Chinese companies seeking to expand here.
  The tension is coming to a head in an internal struggle over a proposal by White House trade adviser Peter Navarro to force the American production of medical supplies through an executive order, Jeff Stein, Robert Costa and Josh Dawsey  report  this morning. 
  Election-year politics are turbocharging the push for the GOP, as the party spies an opportunity to deflect from Trump’s sinking approval ratings on his efforts to contain the crisis while harnessing growing popular animus toward China for its role in launching it.  If all the anti-China talk translates into action, however, the economic consequences will be vast. 
  Navarro's proposed order would eventually force the federal government to buy pharmaceuticals and medical supplies manufactured domestically, my colleagues report. 
  “Although it has the support of some officials at the State Department and the National Security Council, [Treasury Secretary Steven] Mnuchin and several business leaders close to Trump are averse to making a major push on supply chains at a fragile moment for the economy," two former officials told The Post. “And Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, shares Mnuchin’s caution about Navarro’s push to do this executive order at this time.”
  Trump's indecision follows weeks of public about-faces on Chinese culpability for the crisis. He initially  praised  Chinese President Xi Jinping’s handling of the it, as his economic advisers worried a confrontational approach would scuttle the trade agreement the two countries announced in January. Later, Trump began blaming Chinese leadership for the spread of the disease and sought to brand it the “Chinese virus” and the “Wuhan virus.”
  He then dropped those references,  explaining  earlier this month he is seeking economic engagement with the country. Yet Monday, Trump said at a news conference he is seeking to hold the Chinese accountable and pursue hundreds of billions of dollars in damages from the country. “We're doing very serious investigations,” he  said , adding his administration hasn't “determined the final amount yet.”
  Among the latest moves:
  David Nakamura, Carol D. Leonnig and Ellen Nakashima  have more details  about the former Beijing correspondent for the Wall Street Journal now serving as Trump’s deputy national security adviser. 
  At a forum in India back in January, Pottinger said the economic decoupling of the two countries "is something that’s been underway for quite a long time — and it is not driven by the United States.”
  Most are focusing on addressing vulnerabilities they say the pandemic has exposed to Chinese-based supply chains for critical pharmaceuticals, medical equipment and personal protective gear. Others are looking further afield. Hill staffers and lobbyists say some could get a look from lawmakers in the coming weeks as they consider another economic rescue package.
  Plans to impose mandates on companies struggling through the pandemic-induced economic shock are less viable.
  “When you get into sticks, people get defensive, and it’s harder to reach agreement,” Russ Sullivan, a former staff director of the Senate Finance Committee who now lobbies on tax matters, tells me. “More likely are incentives centered around how we bring onshore businesses that are critical to prepare for future pandemics or disasters.” 
  Derek Scissors — an American Enterprise Institute scholar and self-described “multiyear pre-Trump supporter of decoupling” — agrees. “This is not the time to smash down burdens on U.S. companies,” he says. Besides, he remains skeptical policymakers are ready to consider how to relocate the most entrenched supply chains, such as those for consumer electronics. “The fact that we’re talking about it doesn’t mean we’re anywhere close to dealing with the real issues,” he says.
  For the time being, investors don’t appear spooked that drugmakers or medical suppliers will face costly requirements to uproot their Chinese operations. 3M, for example, has found itself in the headlines after its production of N95 masks in China became a diplomatic hot potato between Beijing and Washington. The Minnesota-based company saw its stock  surge  Tuesday after beating expectations with its first-quarter earnings.
  Merck and Pfizer saw their shares slide after reporting quarterly results Tuesday. But executives for both drugmakers, who  acknowledged  earlier this year the pandemic could pinch their supply chains or depress sales, said on  earnings   calls  they have experienced no production interruptions. And both  expect  an economic rebound in the second half of the year.
  Big tech stocks slide considerably:  “Alphabet fell 3 percent ahead of its latest earnings release, which was scheduled for after the close. Facebook dropped 2.5 percent while Amazon slid 2.6 percent. Netflix shares fell 4.2 percent while Apple lost 1.6 percent,” CNBC's Fred Imbert and Maggie Fitzgerald  report .
  “Stocks that would benefit the most from a reopening led the market higher on Monday and were up again Tuesday. Shares of Simon Property Group and Kohl’s rose 10.7 percent and 6.7 percent, respectively, after big gains on Monday. Bank stocks such as Citigroup and JPMorgan also rose more than 0.7 percent each.”
  Powell expected to promise an aggressive posture . The Federal Reserve is unlikely to unveil much in the way of new moves to stabilize the economy after its meeting today, “putting attention on Chairman Jerome Powell’s subsequent news conference, which will be conducted remotely,” WSJ's Nick Timiraos  reports . “With the prospect of a sharp economic rebound fading because of uncertainty about the novel coronavirus pandemic, Mr. Powell has to walk a line between shoring up confidence in policy makers’ response to the crisis without sounding unduly optimistic.”
  Investors and economists say trillions more needed to help economy:  “The economy could take one to two years to rebound to full strength and the Federal Reserve and Congress, having already committed historic sums to fight [the pandemic], will have to commit trillions more, according to respondents to the CNBC Fed Survey,” Steve Liesman  reports .
  “With the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet already at an unprecedented $6.45 trillion, the 36 respondents see it rising on average to $9.8 trillion. The additional trillions will be added by the end of the current quarter, the respondents expect. Congress, having already committed about $2.5 trillion, is seen putting in an additional $2 trillion.”
  Wells Fargo predicts 10-year Treasury yields are on the verge of a comeback:  “Michael Schumacher, the firm’s chief macro strategist, expects improving economic conditions will push Treasury yields higher and prices lower,” CNBC's Stephanie Landsman  reports . “Schumacher’s base case points to a better jobs picture as businesses reopen. A rebound in hiring won’t happen overnight, but he feels it’ll be enough to inject investor confidence into the markets and provide a catalyst for yields.” 
  Consumer confidence plunges in April as millions lose jobs (Associated Press) 
  Mnuchin said large loans will be closely scrutinized:  “Mnuchin said that any small business loan over $2 million will be subject to ‘full review’ before it could be forgiven,” Erica Werner  reports .
  “Amid an outcry about large companies receiving the loans, the [Los Angeles] Lakers repaid the $4.6 million government-backed loan it took out. Mnuchin said in an interview on CNBC that it was ‘outrageous’ the NBA franchise had obtained the money in the first place. It’s unclear if other professional sports teams received similar loans. The organizations aren’t required to disclose it, and the government has not provided any records. Mnuchin also said, while appearing on Fox Business, that firms that improperly took these loans could be subject to ‘criminal liability.’ ”
  The move comes despite concerns about worker safety:  “[The president] invoked the Defense Production Act to classify meat plants as essential infrastructure that must remain open. Under the order, the government will provide additional protective gear for employees as well as guidance, according to a person familiar with the action who spoke about the order before it was signed by the president," Taylor Telford, Kimberly Kindy and Jacob Bogage  report .
  “Worker safety experts say such an order would prevent local health officials from ordering meat companies to use their the most effective weapon available to protect their employees from the coronavirus — closures. They also fear that it would also undercut newly issued federal health guidelines designed to put space between plant workers.”
  The White House is also mulling aid to help energy companies:  “In conversations with independent analysts, senior administration officials have floated a variety of ideas including the imposition of tariffs on imported crude oil; purchasing oil in the ground and leaving it there until prices rebound; providing cash in return for equity stakes in faltering companies; and creating a government lending program similar to one for the airline industry,” Steven Mufson  reports .
  “The Federal Reserve could provide backing to some oil companies, just as it is doing with other businesses short on credit. The president could also try to build on his diplomatic work to persuade Saudi Arabia to divert some of the tankers heading this way. Saudi Arabia has announced cutbacks in production effective May 1, but the decision to send these tankers to the United States was made a month ago when the Saudis were still trying to flood the global markets in a dispute with Russia.”
  The chamber scuttled plans to return after a backlash from some lawmakers:  “House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) said Tuesday she had ‘no choice’ but to heed warnings from Brian P. Monahan, the attending physician of Congress, that bringing the chamber back for routine work after more than six weeks of limited operation would place lawmakers and support staff at heightened risk,” Mike DeBonis and Seung Min Kim  report .
  “[Senate Majority Leader Mitch] McConnell has chosen to accept the risk, bringing senators back for work starting with a Monday evening vote on Trump’s nominee for inspector general of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Two days later, the Senate Judiciary Committee plans to hold a confirmation hearing for Justin Walker, a McConnell protege nominated to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit.”
  Rep. Justin Amash (I-Mich.) will seek the Libertarian Party's nomination:  “Amash, who turned 40 this month, was elected in the 2010 tea party wave and grew increasingly distant from Republicans as the decade went on, fending off a primary challenge from a business-backed conservative in 2014. He was deeply critical of Trump’s 2016 campaign, and even more critical of what the GOP did with control of the legislative and executive branches,” David Weigel  reports .
  “In 2019, Amash became the only Republican to call for Trump’s impeachment. Not long after, he left the party and continued to vote against spending bills, while opposing many White House priorities. He faced a tough reelection in his Grand Rapids, Mich.-based district, with Republicans and Democrats both filing against him.”
  The company faces a number of previously unreported investigations:  “Boeing Co. faces criminal and civil scrutiny into years of widespread quality-control lapses on its 737 MAX assembly line, according to people familiar with the details, potentially exposing the plane maker to greater legal liability than previously anticipated by industry and government officials,” WSJ's Andy Pasztor and Andrew Tangel  report .
  “The inquiries build on a federal grand-jury investigation into hazardously designed flight-control systems, these people said. As part of the expanded probes, Justice Department prosecutors and federal air-safety regulators have been scrutinizing potentially significant safety problems stemming from 737 MAX production missteps.”
  Today: 
  Thursday: 
  Friday: 
  Saturday: 
 