with Brent D. Griffiths
  Main Street businesses are getting a new lobbying voice in Washington – underwritten by a Wall Street giant.
  Goldman Sachs is organizing alums of its "10,000 Small Businesses” training program into a network that will press federal policymakers for more small business relief from the economic fallout of the  coronavirus .
  The banking behemoth has a long-term vision for the lobbying initiative, which it's calling “10,000 Small Business Voices.”  It aims to transform the roughly 10,000 entrepreneurs who have graduated from its accelerated business training program over the last decade into a permanent lobbying corps that will press their own interests from city halls to the halls of Congress. 
  “With this launch, we’re going to give them more tools and more resources,”John F.W. Rogers, chair of the firm’s foundation, tells me.
  A decade after helping drive the economy to the brink then taking billions of taxpayer dollars to stay afloat,  the industry is keen to demonstrate  it has emerged stronger, safer and ready to battle an economic crisis for which they bear no responsibility.
  It's been a  bumpy road  so far. Banking giants partnering with the Small Business Administration to hand out taxpayer-backed rescue loans are  catching criticism  from lawmakers and small-business people for prioritizing larger firms and established clients.
  Goldman isn’t among them. The investment bank doesn’t lend directly to small businesses. Instead, it remains a step removed from the action in the Paycheck Protection Program: It has committed to providing $500 million in capital to a handful of Community Development Financial Institutions, which in turn are issuing loans to small outfits in rural or otherwise underserved areas.
  Goldman Sachs CEO David Solomon has rolled out the firm’s capital commitments to local lenders by joining virtual news conferences with the mayors of  Detroit  and  Baltimore  and issuing news releases with others.
  He convened a national webcast for graduates of the firm’s program to quiz Sens. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) and Ben Cardin (D-Md.), the top senators on the Senate Small Business panel, on the loan initiative days before it launched. Goldman has since organized others with statewide leaders in Iowa, Ohio, New York, New Hampshire.
  And Solomon touted its involvement to President Trump earlier this month in a White House  video conference  with other top financial executives. In that meeting, he requested the administration carve out a portion of the original $349 billion in loans for smaller lenders. It didn’t. But Congress did in the second round of funding after taking heat when mom-and-pop operations didn’t secure help from the initial batch.
  Goldman has now devoted its  homepage  to spotlighting its efforts. It features a blurb headlined “Supporting Our Communities,” and links to the  text  of Solomon’s remarks at the White House meeting.
  Meanwhile, the firm has polled graduates of its program twice in recent weeks on their economic outlook and opinions of the federal response, then circulated the results to policymakers. The most recent survey, last week, found 91 percent of respondents had applied for a PPP loan but only 29 percent had actually received funding. The next poll, set for May, will solicit views of what Washington should do next. That will inform the nascent lobbying network’s agenda, Rogers says.
  Small businesses already have a dedicated lobbying operation in Washington: the National Federation of Independent Business claims 325,000 members across the map and  spent  $4.7 million lobbying the federal government last year.  Rogers says the firm's surveys indicate small businesspeople still want a stronger role shaping policy.  Both he and NFIB spokesman Adam Temple said they viewed the efforts as complementary. 
  “Until Goldman fundamentally reforms its culture, ethics and business models — away from primarily relatively high-risk, dangerous and anti-social trading and investment practices like  1MDB  and the activities that have given rise to dozens and downs of lawsuits and settlements —  it’s fair to question whether the attempt to put a different face on a largely unchanged business practice is genuine ,” says Dennis Kelleher, president of Better Markets, which advocates tougher financial regulation.
  Rogers says it has proved its commitment to boosting small businesses by piloting, scaling up and sustaining the program over a decade. “We've been at this for a long time. We’re deeply invested in it,” he says.
  To those who remain skeptical, Rogers says he hopes the firm “can be viewed as being constructive here.  One of the things that we certainly learned in the financial crisis is that we operate by a set of permissions that are given from the public. So I certainly would hope that we are able through this to demonstrate we're contributing to constructive society.”
  Last year, it kicked off a series of 10,000 Small Businesses-branded forums in Iowa and New Hampshire featuring presidential hopefuls talking about their plans to boost entrepreneurship. Goldman executives say issues facing smaller employers, responsible for roughly half the American workforce, were otherwise ignored: Rogers says across 11 Democratic presidential debates, only one question focused on it.
  The project also served as a “a subtle rebranding exercise by a firm at the center of a knockdown political fight between Wall Street and Main Street,” as I  wrote  at the time. Twelve candidates participated, including now-presumptive Democratic nominee Joe Biden. Two who refused — Sens. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), both among the financial sector’s most outspoken foes — came up short in their bids. Yet they endure as power-brokers whose supporters Biden is  eager  to recruit.
  Goldman held its first-ever investment day in January, “aiming to turn skeptics into believers in [Solomon’s] turnaround plan,” the Wall Street Journal’s Liz Hoffman  reported . “The new Goldman, sketched out by Mr. Solomon, resembles less the storied investment bank Goldman was for most of its 150-year history than the giant commercial banks that in recent years have surpassed it.”
  And, per Hoffman, the firm “debuted a newfound openness once unthinkable for the aloof Wall Street firm. Mr. Solomon, a year into the CEO job, has tried to humanize Goldman and drop some of the secrecy that once bolstered its mythic status but has played poorly with investors as profits fell.” The posture gels with a strategy that calls for expanding revenue from consumer offerings “like checking accounts and financial management that might have come straight from JPMorgan Chase & Co. or Bank of America Corp.”
  Dr. Anthony Fauci compared the news to a breakthrough during the AIDS epidemic.  “Small but significant scientific advances against covid-19 sent stocks bursting upward Wednesday, all but ignoring sobering data that shows a U.S. economy in paralysis,” Thomas Heath and Taylor Telford  report .
  “Stocks are on pace for one of their best months in decades as the United States ramps up coronavirus testing and states take steps to emerge from the weeks-long lockdown. Wednesday’s rally picked up steam after Gilead Sciences reported ‘positive data’ coming from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases’ clinical trial of its investigational remdesivir treatment for covid-19. The company said ‘the trial has met its primary endpoint.’”
  But Q2 will be even worse:  “The U.S. economy suffered its sharpest decline since the Great Recession — a 4.8 percent drop — from January through March, and the head of the Federal Reserve warned the second quarter would be even uglier …,” Heather Long  reports .
  “There is widespread agreement that the U.S. economy is in the midst of its worst crisis since the Great Depression, and Commerce Department data released revealed just how severe it is becoming. Consumer and business spending nosedived in the first quarter, even with the economy shuttered for only half of March. Household spending tumbled 7.6 percent, and business investment sank 8.6 percent.”
  From RSM chief economist Joe Brusuelas:
  Health care was the biggest drag:  “The single biggest source of the GDP decline came from health care, which subtracted 2.3 percentage points,” Barron's Matthew C. Klein  reports .
  “Every subcategory of health spending plunged by the most on record. It makes sense that dentists, regular checkups, and elective surgeries were all hit hard by people afraid of contracting a dangerous respiratory virus, but the scale of the health-care decline is still striking given the nature of the crisis and the focus on the travails of bars and restaurants.”
  He emphasized that now is not the time to worry about the debt:  “Powell vowed repeatedly to use all of the Fed’s tool to keep U.S. businesses and households afloat during the crisis, but he warned that a recovery could take a while and that there is a significant risk of long-term damage if Congress and the central bank do not do enough to aid the economy.”
  From the New York Times's Neil Irwin: 
  Economists are telling GOP lawmakers the same thing:  "E conomists from a broad range of ideological backgrounds are encouraging Congress to keep spending to combat catastrophic job losses — and say now is not the time to focus on the deficit. They emphasize that the federal government can borrow at near-zero interest rates, as investors seek the safety of U.S. bonds and the Federal Reserve buys up tens of billions of dollars worth of Treasury securities each week,” Politico's  Victoria Guida and Marianne LeVine  report .
  “GOP concerns over the deficit will play a central role in negotiations as lawmakers begin working on the next emergency spending bill and Democrats push for more funds for state and local governments.”
  Jobless claims tally could top 30 million if new filers are close to last week's level (CNBC) 
  ECB Expands Stimulus Amid Economic Downturn (WSJ) 
  The goal is too boost smaller lenders:  “The move applies to any lender with more than $1 billion in assets for an eight-hour time period starting at 4 p.m. Wednesday, according to an email obtained by CNBC,” Hugh Son  reports .
  “… The U.S. agencies appear to be experimenting with reserving blocks of time for smaller banks, blocking access to big lenders in an attempt to improve the odds that small customers can have their loans approved. ”
  This is a new front in a yearslong criminal investigation:  “Agents have interviewed both current and former GM employees within the company’s labor relations department and raised questions about interactions between GM’s top bargainers and their counterparts at the UAW, say people with knowledge of the inquiry,” WSJ's Ben Foldy, Nora Naughton and Christina Rogers  report .
  “Investigators have also subpoenaed records from the company’s now-closing employee training center, an entity GM had jointly operated with the UAW for decades, according to a training center email sent to staff in February and people familiar with the matter … Federal authorities are trying to determine whether GM, in its dealings with UAW, violated U.S. labor law barring companies from providing union officials with items of value, some of these people say.”
  Juul plans to cut roughly one-third of its workers:  “The San Francisco company will cut between 800 and 950 of its staff as part of a broader restructuring plan, one of the people said. The cuts aren’t related to the coronavirus pandemic, this person said,” WSJ's Jennifer Maloney  reports .
  “Juul last year recorded $2 billion in sales and a loss of $1 billion, according to a financial disclosure the company made to its employees … [the company] cut about 650 jobs late last year after stopping sales of its sweet and fruity flavors in anticipation of a U.S. ban on most flavored e-cigarette cartridges. Blamed for a rise in teenage vaping, Juul is the subject of several federal investigations.”
  Former CFPB official says Trump appointees manipulated payday lending research . NYT's Nick Confessore and Stacy Cowley  report  that last summer, on his final day at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a staffer named  Jonathan Lanning wrote a memo that "detailed several maneuvers by his agency’s political overseers that he considered legally risky and scientifically indefensible, including pressuring staff economists to water down their findings on payday loans and use statistical gimmicks to downplay the harm consumers would suffer if the payday restrictions were repealed… 
  “ Political appointees at the bureau, led by its director, Kathleen Kraninger, have pressed forward with the Trump administration’s deregulatory drive despite the logistical hurdles posed by the coronavirus pandemic. This week, the agency is expected to release the revised payday rule, which will no longer require lenders to assess whether customers can afford their fees before offering a loan.”
  Other e-commerce giants have previously made the list:  “The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative… cited allegations of counterfeit goods sold on the Seattle-based online retailer’s websites in Canada, Germany, France, India and the United Kingdom,” Reuters's Chris Sanders  reports .
  “The office is “considering seeking more information regarding e-commerce platforms, including those based in the United States, in future reviews of Notorious Markets,” it added. "Amazon said it strongly disagreed with the report, describing it as a ‘purely political act’ and an example of the administration of  [Trump] ‘using the U.S. government to advance a personal vendetta against Amazon.’” (Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos owns The Washington Post)
  Today: 
  Friday: 
  Saturday: 
 