with Brent D. Griffiths
  Janet Yellen has a message for policymakers racing to get emergency  coronavirus  relief into the hands of small-business owners: You can encourage banks to issue loans faster by clarifying they won’t face lawsuits for fraud in the program.
  The former Federal Reserve chair made the point to House Democrats on a conference call earlier this week — and spelled it out to me in a Tuesday email.  “I did indicate to the caucus that banks’ concern about liability could cause them to restrict the loans they initiate and engage in due diligence that could slow down payments,”   Yellen said.  
  “Banks rightly worry about this in the aftermath of the financial crisis where they bore considerable put back risk,” Yellen continued. “I didn’t give any blanket recommendation but suggested to the caucus that it is an issue and providing some sort of safe harbor for banks on this would likely speed payments.” 
  Banking industry representatives are making the same case to lawmakers and the Trump administration, as public pressure builds to cut through bureaucratic snarls hobbling the $349 billion forgivable loan program.
  The administration already is asking Congress to commit another $250 billion to the initiative , called the Paycheck Protection Program, citing surging demand. And congressional Republicans, at least, appear ready to act on the request this week.
  Banks balked at the initial terms, arguing they were not being fairly compensated for their participation. Borrowers report they are running into a thicket of confusing document requests from overwhelmed and occasionally unresponsive lenders. And the Small Business Administration’s online portal for processing applications has crashed repeatedly.
  “President Trump said banks have processed $70 billion in taxpayer-backed loans for 250,000 small businesses since Friday” when the program launched, The Post’s Erica Werner, Jeff Stein and Renae Merle  report.  “He did not say, though, how many of those loans have been approved or how many firms have received any of the money. And his data suggests the program has reached a small fraction of U.S. companies: There are 30 million small businesses in the United States that employ 60 million people.” 
  But that's not the only headache, industry sources say. 
  The banks confronted such a reckoning in the aftermath of the global financial crisis, when federal prosecutors  sued them  over errors in applications for government-backed home loans.
  The Treasury Department, in guidance  posted  Monday, clarified that banks could skip the vetting they are typically required to perform for new loans if those applying for them are already customers.  Small-business owners who don’t have an existing relationship with a bank say that forces them to the back of the line — a complaint echoed by some lawmakers.  
  Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) tweeted:
  Per one industry source, “ The banks’ position is, if you want us to onboard new customers, you should allow us to do due diligence after the fact . … If they make that change, we would welcome it, because it would help us serve small businesses that don’t have an existing banking relationship.”
  Elsewhere, Yellen has advocated tougher regulations on the sector amidst the crisis. She has  recommended  the Fed ban the biggest banks from paying dividends to shareholders in order to preserve their capital. 
  But she is warning the economic pain from the fallout of the pandemic could be severe, estimating  in a CNBC interview  that unemployment already could have surged to 13 percent as GDP stands to take a 30 percent hit this quarter. 
  In addition to Yellen’s backing, the industry can point to support from the Wall Street Journal editorial board. 
  “Treasury in its guidance writes that lenders ‘will be held harmless for borrowers’ failure to comply with program criteria.’ But Congress didn’t repeal the Bank Secrecy Act or the False Claims Act, and many banks simply don’t trust that they won’t later be sued for making loans to borrowers who fudge their qualifications,” the paper’s editorial team  writes , arguing lawmakers “should provide explicit legal protection to banks and fix the other problems they created in their attempt to rescue small businesses from the government decision to deny them customers.”
  That's according to Neil Barofsky, who served as inspector general for the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program.  “There’s a general rule of thumb in government programs that a good 10 percent… is going to get lost to fraud,”  he said in an MSNBC interview Tuesday.
  “It’s just going to take the mother of all firehoses to try to put out this fire and try to keep people able to feed their kids and maintain a life,” Barofksy said. “The fact that we’re going to lose a chunk of it to fraud, as a former federal prosector, inspector general, that makes me a little nauseous, a little sick. But it’s going to be a necessary part of this program. But that doesn’t mean you give up. And that’s where oversight comes in."
  Speaking of which: Trump removed Glenn Fine, chairman of the federal panel overseeing the $2 trillion coronavirus relief package, as part of a broader effort to oust inspectors general in his administration,  The Post’s Ellen Nakashima reports . “In just the past four days, Trump has ousted two inspectors general and expressed displeasure with a third, a pattern that critics say is a direct assault on one of the pillars of good governance,” she writes. 
  Fine was and his staff were caught flatfooted when notified of the decision Monday and given no explanation, Nakashima reports: “Trump cast his decision to remove Fine as merely cleaning house of Obama-era holdover appointments, saying those officials could be biased.” 
  Dow gives up more than 900 points:  “The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed 26.13 points lower, or 0.1 percent, at 22,653.86. The 30-stock average rose as much as 937.25 points, or 4.1 percent, at its session high,” CNBC's Fred Imbert and Yun Li  report .
  “The S&P 500 ended the day 0.2 percent lower at 2,659.41 after jumping more than 3 percent. The Nasdaq Composite fell 0.3 percent to 7,887.26 following a 3 percent rally.”
  U.S. slashes 2020 oil-output forecast:  The forecast was cut “by more than 1 million barrels a day, as collapsing crude prices and plummeting demand threaten to shutter production in the country’s biggest fields,” Bloomberg ’ s Stephen Cunningham  reports .
  “Production is expected to average 11.76 million barrels a day through December, down from a previous forecast of 12.99 million barrels, the Energy Information Administration said … The agency also trimmed its 2021 output expectations by 1.6 million barrels a day to just over 11 million daily barrels.”
  Richard Burr jettisoned shares in a Dutch fertilizer company right before it collapsed:  “The chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Richard Burr (R-N.C.), sold off almost $47,000 dollars worth of shares in a small Dutch fertilizer company in 2018, just weeks before its stock began a sharp 40 percent collapse,” Pro Publica ’ s Robert Faturechi  reports .
  “Investors may also have been disappointed by developments in the Trump administration’s trade policy that hurt OCI. The company had been positioned to benefit from the expected sanctions on Iranian oil and petrochemical imports. But in November 2018, the Trump administration waived some of those restrictions.”
  Perdue bought stock in a company that makes PPE:  “Sen. David Perdue (R-Ga.) bought stock in DuPont de Nemours, a chemical company that produces personal protective equipment, on January 24, the same day the Senate received a classified briefing on the spread of the novel coronavirus, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported on Monday,” Business Insider's Sonam Sheth  reports . 
  “The revelation came from Perdue's financial-portfolio disclosures. The latest, filed on Sunday, included 110 items related to stock trades. … Perdue ’ s spokeswoman, Cherie Gillan, told The Journal-Constitution that ‘since coming to the US Senate in 2015, Sen. Perdue has always had an outside adviser managing his personal finances, and he is not involved in day-to-day decisions.’ ” Gillan says Perdue did not attend the Jan. 24 briefing. 
  Loeffler continued to defend her trades:  “On its face, the timing of the investment deals — which [Sen. Kelly Loeffler (R-Ga.)] said were made without her knowledge by her investment advisers — have raised suspicions. Her congressional disclosures, which require senators to reveal only a range of transaction amounts rather than precise figures, state that she and her husband sold between $1.2 million and $3.1 million in stocks in the three weeks after the Jan. 24 coronavirus briefing,” Manuel Roig-Franzia  reports .
  “Those sales, which were revealed on a Senate disclosure report in mid-March, took place before the stock market cratered amid concerns about the pandemic. But interviews and a review of both public and previously undisclosed documents that Loeffler provided at The Post’s request paint a more nuanced picture. A detailed summary prepared by the senator’s office of the couple’s stock sales shows they add up to $1.8 million, a figure closer to the low end of the range she’d reported. In isolation, those sales could support a pandemic-profiteer narrative.”
  “Cole Hatton, who was Juul’s principal engineer, was one of the firm’s first employees. He’s also named on the patent for the Juul device as a co-inventor, along with the company’s co-founders, Adam Bowen and James Monsees,” Bloomberg News ’ s Lauren Etter  reports .
  “ The move comes just days after the departure of Guy Cartwright, a senior executive in charge of leading a $1 billion restructuring of the company, and less than a month after Monsees announced that he was leaving the Silicon Valley startup that he helped build. … The personnel changes come amid a transformation underway at the e-cigarette company that began in December 2018 when tobacco giant Altria Group Inc. paid $12.8 billion for a third of the company .” 
  Today: 
  Thursday: 
 