As  coronavirus  cases surge in the South and Sun Belt, budget woes may challenge congressional Republicans' opposition to state and local aid. 
  Just months ago,  President Trump  and top GOP lawmakers branded such requests as “ blue state bailouts ,” dismissing the suggestion they would do anything more to help Democratic-led New York, New Jersey and Illinois and blaming their financial struggles more on public union pensions than the pandemic. 
  What's unfolding now in Texas could make it a tougher choice. And its growing budget uncertainty could be a warning sign for other red states such as Arizona and Florida where already spiking cases have led to the  the reversal of some economic reopening plans  and a dampening of confidence among residents  increasingly wary  about returning to normal life in the new coronavirus epicenters. 
  Texas “witnessed a  $650 million drop in tax revenue collected in June,  according to data released Wednesday by state budget officials, which includes sales mostly made in May. Texas leaders attributed the decline to consumers shelling out less for cars, gasoline, alcohol and other goods, as well as precipitous drops in travel and tourism, compared with the same period a year earlier,”  Tony Romm  reports .
  Texas is also dealing with shocks to the energy industry:  “The state’s most lucrative revenue stream, sales taxes, plummeted more than $200 million between mid-May and mid-June, falling roughly 6.5 percent compared with collections in June 2019, state budget officials said,” my colleague writes. “The decline came partly in response to ‘steep drops in remittances from oil- and gas-related sectors,’ Glenn Hegar, the comptroller, said in a statement.” 
  Texas began reopening in mid-April, but cases didn't really begin to spike until last month. This probably means July's numbers will be worse. 
  Gov. Greg Abbott (R) has paused reopening plans, shutting down bars and scaling back restaurant dining as cases hit records and hospitalizations soar. Meanwhile, health-care officials in Houston, the state's largest city, project that  hospital space could run out  in a matter of weeks.
  The state does have one big advantage:  “ Unlike many states, Texas entered the economic crisis with healthy cash reserves of roughly $11 billion, allowing state officials perhaps to avoid some of the more painful cuts and tax increases pursued by other locales,” my colleague writes. 
    “Even the states that are really well run are being really overwhelmed by the level of downturns they are going to see in terms of revenues,” Dan White, the director of government consulting and fiscal policy research at Moody's Analytics, told my colleague. 
  The “congressional  effort to authorize an additional $1 trillion in state and local support, which House Democrats have already adopted, has received  little traction among Republican leaders  in the Senate even as negotiations continue on a new emergency coronavirus relief package,” my colleague writes. “GOP lawmakers are skeptical about additional spending, with some suggesting along with [Trump] that only states led by Democrats are in need of direct federal help. Others contend the best solution is to repurpose existing dollars so cities and states can spend them more easily.”  
  Trump  affirmed yesterday  he's in favor of another round of direct payments to Americans, but it's unclear how much he those checks should be for and how many people should receive them. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) has said the next relief package could include more stimulus checks, but that  he would like to see them  go to Americans making $40,000 a year or less.  
  And the White House is exploring another avenue: tax credits for Major League Baseball and other incentives to get Americans to take vacations, Jeff Stein  reports .
  One idea is to limit Hong Kong's access to U.S. dollars:  “Some top advisers to [Trump] want the U.S. to undermine the Hong Kong dollar’s peg to the U.S. dollar as the administration considers options to punish China for recent moves to chip away at the former British colony’s political freedoms …,” Nick Wadhams, Jenny Leonard, Jennifer Jacobs and Saleha Mohsin  report .
  “The idea of striking against the Hong Kong dollar peg -- perhaps by limiting the ability of Hong Kong banks to buy U.S. dollars -- has been raised as part of broader discussions among advisers to Secretary of State Michael Pompeo and hasn’t been elevated to the senior levels of the White House, suggesting that it hasn’t gained serious traction yet … The proposal faces strong push back from others in the administration who worry such a move would only hurt Hong Kong banks and the U.S., not China …”
  TikTok tries to strike balance:  “The Chinese maker of TikTok, the popular short-video platform, said it would pull its app out of Hong Kong amid concerns about a new national-security law, its second market exit in as many weeks, as Secretary of State Mike Pompeo hinted the Trump administration was considering limiting U.S. users’ access to the app,” the WSJ's Liza Lin and Eva Xiao  report .
  Activists say the social network is still not doing enough:  “Civil rights leaders organizing a major advertising boycott of Facebook said they remained unconvinced that the social network is taking enough action against hate speech and disinformation after meeting with Mark Zuckerberg and other Facebook executives,” Cat Zakrzewski and Hamza Shaban  report .
  “Color of Change President Rashad Robinson described the meeting as ‘disappointing’ during a news conference … The organizers of the campaign, known as #StopHateForProfit, provided a list of demands to the social network days before the meeting, he said, and the company did not have clear responses to their recommendations.”
  Boeing continues to face uncertain future:  “The production line of the 737 Max is back up and running after six months of dormancy. And last week the Federal Aviation Administration completed a series of test flights to assess the safety of the planes, once derided by a congressman as a 'flying coffin' after a pair of crashes that killed 346 people,” Christian Davenport and Aaron Gregg  report .
  “The company has said it is confident it will weather what has been one of the most tumultuous periods in its more than 100-year history … But the future of the Max and the company’s fate remain far from certain, and reopening the production line may represent misplaced optimism after a series of staggering setbacks across a range of programs.”
  Deutsche Bank fined $150 million for relationship with Jeffrey Epstein, other lapses:  “The penalty announced by the New York State Department of Financial Services marks the first time regulators have punished a bank for its relationship with Epstein, a convicted sex offender,” Renae Merle and Taylor Telford  report .
  “Despite knowing Epstein’s ‘terrible criminal history,’ the bank ‘inexcusably failed to detect or prevent millions of dollars of suspicious transactions,’ Linda A. Lacewell, the superintendent of financial services, said in a statement … The $150 million penalty also covered Deutsche Bank’s conduct in two money laundering cases. The New York State Department of Financial Services said Deutsche failed to properly monitor the activities of two foreign bank clients, Danske Estonia and the Federal Bank of the Middle East, or FBME.”
  Top U.S. home mortgage lender to go public:  “Rocket Companies Inc., the parent company of the mortgage giant founded by billionaire Dan Gilbert, filed for an initial public offering, disclosing an annual profit for the past three years,” Bloomberg News's Michael Hytha and Crystal Tse  report .
  “The Detroit-based company, which owns Rocket Mortgage and Quicken Loans, listed the size of the offering in a filing as $100 million, a placeholder amount that will likely change. Rocket Companies describes itself as the largest retail mortgage lender in the U.S., and Gilbert has a net worth of $7.1 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.”
  FICO will now score consumers’ readiness for a financial crisis. Here’s how it works. (Michelle Singletary) 
  The brief life cycle of Quibi, from promising start to industry laughingstock (Sonia Rao) 
  Today: 
  Thursday:  
 