with Brent D. Griffiths
  Adam Milne doesn't have time to wait. The owner of Old Town Pizza & Brewing, in Portland, Ore., laid off two-thirds of his staff in late March after the state imposed social distancing measures in response to the  coronavirus . He shifted the two-restaurant operation to pickup and deliveries in a bid to keep it afloat. 
  But the small business owner has piled up $25,000 in credit card debt and counting covering rent, utilities and insurance. To avert closing his doors — and to bring his full staff back to work — Milne is scrambling to secure a $189,363 government lifeline. 
  The process of attempting to get an emergency loan through the administration's Paycheck Protection Program, which launched Friday, has been a stressful mess.  
  Despite a long-standing relationship with Wells Fargo, Milne never received the notification he’d signed up for to notify him when the bank’s online application portal went live. Instead, he learned Monday – over Twitter – that the bank had reached a $10 billion limit for lending under the program and  wouldn’t be accepting  any more applications. 
  He also submitted a request to U.S. Bank, which said it would reach out with follow-up questions before processing his application. He's still awaiting that inquiry, with no clarity on whether funds will come. 
  “It’s been a free-for-all,” Milne says. “We desperately need these funds to keep us alive … and our employees want to come back to work.” 
  Small business owners are not only struggling to navigate an unprecedented economic shutdown forced by the coronavirus; they are also knee-deep in the bureaucratic morass of what is meant to be Washington’s rescue effort. 
  The $349 billion program to provide forgivable loans to smaller businesses has been beset by a technically buggy rollout and mounting concerns that its funds will run dry long before reaching many that are counting on its help.
  The nation's biggest banks have already committed 10 percent of the total,  my colleague Renae Merle  reports.  Bank of America alone said Monday it has received 178,000 applications seeking $32.9 billion. “Some big banks,  including Citigroup,  still haven’t begun accepting applications. JPMorgan Chase, the country’s largest bank, took its site down briefly to make ‘essential updates’ and simplify its application,” Merle writes.
  Major glitches with the processing system for the program are adding another layer of headaches.  Reuters’s Pete Schroeder and Michelle Price  report  that “U.S. lenders were unable to process loan applications for hours on Monday after the SBA’s online portal crashed around midday. A senior administration official denied the SBA system had crashed, and said the agency continued to process loans and add lenders.”
  Per Reuters, “Since the program opened on Friday, banks have struggled to access the clunky system and the paperwork involved has changed more than once, industry sources said… Many lenders have had problems signing up for new user accounts with the SBA’s platform, while bankers who already had accounts have had issues unlocking them or resetting passwords.”
  Borrowers are encountering problems online, too.  Michael Witte, chief financial officer for a 67-employee company in Bowie, Md., that manages office furniture installations, says he had to fill out an online application with Sandy Springs Bank eight times before he successfully submitted it. 
  “Now it’s wait and hold,” he tells me. "Im not angry with the banks. I appreciate the work they’re doing with the rules they have. There was a lot of confusion about what form to use from the SBA.”
  President Trump bristled at a question about the program’s rocky rollout Monday but indicated he would support giving it more funding.  “We're going to have to probably add more money to this to save and to keep our small businesses going and to keep the employees of those small businesses working,”   Trump said.  He made a similar commitment via Twitter over the weekend:
  And some Republican leaders back expanding the program’s funding in a “phase four” stimulus package. The office of Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) said over the weekend “it is clear that Congress will need to appropriate additional money" for small businesses,  my colleagues Erica Werner and Mike DeBonis report. 
  The Federal Reserve has also  announced  it will provide financing to participating banks to take loans off their books and ease more lending.
  Trump said at his news conference said “ tens of thousands of small businesses applied for more than $40 billion in relief,”  though it’s not clear how much banks have passed along to borrowers.
  Of eight small business owners and advisers I spoke to Monday, none had received funds yet . Peter Kramer, whose business manages five parking garages in Arlington, Va., managed after three attempts to submit an online loan application to TD Bank. He received an automated response informing him he can expect to be contacted in three to five business days. He says revenue slow to a trickle in March, and now he is losing money every day. “We can make it one more month and then we have to lay everybody off,” he says of his six employees.
  Caroline Devoy, a Houston CPA who advises ten clients employing 272 workers, says she managed to submit applications for all of them, with six different banks. But she is counseling them not to anticipate swift action. Despite her clients’ voluminous submissions, she tells me she expects the banks “are going to come back wanting more information.”
  “Everything they tried to avoid with this plan is going to happen anyway, if they can’t get this money out there,” she says. 
  You may notice the newsletter looks a little different today. We're debuting a redesign, aimed at making this note cleaner, sharper, and easier to read. Please let us know what you think  here . Thanks for being a Finance 202 reader:  Tell your friends to sign up here. 
  And if you're a small business owner working to secure a loan, or a lender navigating the process, I'd still like to hear from you. You can drop me a line at  tory.newmyer@washpost.com .  
  Dow surges 1,600 points:  “Wall Street made historic gains even as Americans were advised to prepare themselves for the worst of the coronavirus crisis this week,” my colleagues Taylor Telford and Thomas Heath  report .
  “The Dow Jones industrial average, Standard & Poor’s 500 and Nasdaq composite all skyrocketed more than 7 percent even as U.S. coronavirus deaths passed 10,000 and after the U.S. surgeon general warned that the coming week could be catastrophic, rivaling Pearl Harbor or the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.” 
  OPEC seeks to rally producers:  “A growing scarcity of oil storage space is driving some of the world’s biggest crude producers to negotiate a truce this week in a Saudi-Russian fight for market share that has contributed — along with the coronavirus pandemic — to the recent oil-price rout,” the Wall Street Journal's Benoit Faucon and Summer Said  report .
  “As oil demand collapses amid the viral pandemic, the Saudi-led Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and Russia-led allies are holding a virtual gathering Thursday to negotiate a truce in the Saudi-Russian price war and debate curbs of 10 million barrels a day. The group hopes North American producers will join, and it has invited Norway, the U.K. and Brazil to join the meeting, delegates said.” 
  Credit Markets Show Signs of Stabilizing After Historic Fed Intervention (WSJ) 
  “Congressional leaders and the White House are converging on the need for a new assistance package to try to contain the coronavirus pandemic’s economic devastation, fearful that a $2 trillion bailout law enacted last month will have only a limited effect,” Erica Werner and Mike DeBonis  report .
  “House Democrats are eyeing a package of spending increases that would ‘easily’ cost more than $1 trillion, Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) told lawmakers Monday... Democrats are looking to extend unemployment aid and small-business assistance for additional months, as well as authorize another round of direct checks to taxpayers." 
  What Republicans want:  “Trump has signaled support for some of the ideas that Democrats back, such as expanded help for small-business owners and new bailout checks for households. Republican leaders, meanwhile, have also called for more corporate aid and money to boost the overwhelmed health-care system.”
  The industry is mounting a blitz to secure aid for its riskier investments.  The Post's Carol D. Leonnig, Jonathan O'Connell and Michelle Ye Hee Lee : "The intense appetite among private-equity firms to get a bigger piece of the stimulus windfall has put a spotlight on the numerous ties between wealthy industry figures and Trump and his family — raising questions about potential conflicts of interest as the Treasury Department writes the rules for handing out billions of dollars in loans and grants.
  “One significant connection to the industry is through Kushner, a top White House official whose family real estate company received millions in loans from Apollo Global Management, a New York-based private-equity firm. Two weeks ago, a partner at Apollo sent a personal email to Kushner suggesting steps the administration should take to ensure loans are available to firms with a wide range of risk... Such a move could benefit some private equity firms, as well as other investors that hold debts such as mortgages and commercial real estate loans.”
  Trump risks U.S. jobs with assistance to Apple:  “The  iPhone maker was exempted from tariffs levied on components it imports from China that are used in the Mac Pro desktop put together at the Flex plant,” Bloomberg News's  Jenny Leonard and Ian King  report . Trump visited the facility two months before the  exemption  announcement.
  “The removal of a 25 percent surcharge on items like power supplies and printed circuit boards that house the main components of the computer lowered Apple’s costs and, according to Cook, was the reason why the Cupertino, California-based company  continued its manufacturing  at the Austin factory …  But other companies, like San Jose, California-based Cisco, didn’t receive the same treatment. Now jobs related to the manufacture of its products are at risk.” 
  E.U. to boost retaliatory tariffs amid metals dispute:  “The European Union plans to impose tariffs on lighters and plastic fittings from the U.S. in retaliation over controversial American duties on imported steel and aluminum, according to EU officials,” Bloomberg News's Jonathan Stearns  reports .
  “The EU intends to apply a 20 percent tariff on lighters and a 7 percent levy on plastic fittings for furniture in response to a U.S. decision in February widening the scope of metal levies introduced in 2018 on national-security grounds, the officials said on the condition of anonymity.” 
  Americans are stocking up on household staples — and guns. Via economist Adam Tooze: 
  Today: 
  Wednesday: 
  Thursday: 
 