The images from Memorial Day weekend tell the story: Americans are venturing back out to parks, beaches and malls as state and local officials  across the map  ease restrictions. 
  The tentative thaw is showing up in measures of economic activity — from restaurant reservations to airline ticket purchases — that have been throttled by coronavirus shutdowns.  The upticks so far offer little clarity about the speed, scale and durability of a recovery.  The course of the disease will determine how the economy bounces back. Indeed, while the national count of new infections is dropping,  the disease continues to spread in rural areas . And premature reopening could invite a second wave of outbreaks.  
  Though  polls show  a majority of Americans continue to harbor fear of the virus, the turnaround in the data shows many consumers are ready to resume the activity that will help power a comeback.  
  “The economy is beginning to pick itself up from the floor , though the monthly indicators will be grim for the next few weeks, because of the lags in data collection and publication,” Pantheon Macroeconomics chief economist Ian Shepherdson writes in a note. “But the near-real-time numbers are all rising, from their incredibly depressed lows last month. …  With more states opening over the past couple weeks, we expect the numbers for the Memorial Day weekend — the start of the summer season — to be considerably better.” 
  The firm created graphics outlining a handful of categories showing that people are venturing back out to spend. Restaurant reservations are picking up: 
  Airline travel looks to be recovering sharply:
  People are checking back into hotels:
  Per the Wall Street Journal,  Americans are also looking at real estate again — with showings up 27 percent as of May 23, by one industry measure — and applying for mortgages: 
  The shipping industry, likewise, is registering a resurgence in activity. “The numbers remain low by historical standards but suggest the carriers have turned a corner,” Harriet Torry and Josh Mitchell  write in the Wall Street Journal . “Truckstop.com, which measures demand in trucking’s spot market, says its weekly index has improved for four straight weeks and that available loads were up 27% in the week ended May 18.”
  Today marks an important symbolic step for the financial industry, as the New York Stock Exchange reopens its trading floor after a two-month closure , though it won’t look quite the same. “A visitor ban means splashy bell-ringings and celebrations to mark initial public offerings won’t be happening anytime soon,” the WSJ’s Alexander Osipovich  writes . “Media organizations that broadcast from the floor, like CNBC and Cheddar, aren’t coming back yet either.” And floor traders must sign liability waivers.
  Tyson Foods, the country’s largest meat processor, is seeing a surge in the number of infected workers — from under 1,600 a month ago to more than 7,000 today — despite taking a number of steps to test and protect those in its plants, Taylor Telford  reports .
  “What has happened at Tyson — and the meat industry overall — shows how difficult getting the nation back to normal is, even in essential fields such as food processing,” she writes. “The prospect of long-term shortages is giving rise to an intensifying debate about whether the industry should reopen faster or safety should be prioritized, even at the cost of the nation’s food supply.” 
  “While we think the worst of the bad news is behind us, we remain unsure how long activity will remain at subdued levels — in other words, we cannot be sure of the duration of the recession,” High Frequency Economics chief U.S. economist Rubeela Farooqi writes in a note.
  Shepherdson warns his firm forecasts for activity in May and June “should properly be described as guesses. We expect a hefty rebound in Q3, with GDP rising at a 30% annualized rate, followed by a 10% increase in Q4. But that would still result in a 6% drop for the year, leaving the year-end economy some 8% smaller than it likely would have been without the virus."
  —  Dow futures surge on vaccine hopes .  CNBC's Yun Li : "Stock futures traded sharply higher early Tuesday to begin a holiday-shortened week, as optimism grew about a potential  coronavirus  vaccine. Futures on the Dow Jones Industrial Average pointed to an implied opening gain of more than 550 points.  S&P 500  and Nasdaq 100 futures also pointed to solid gains at the open…
  “American biotech company Novavax said Monday it started the first human study of its experimental coronavirus vaccine. The company said it expects initial results on safety and immune responses in July.”
  Mortgage Credit Tightens, Creating Drag on Any Economic Recovery (WSJ) 
  Hertz was teetering. The pandemic delivered a knockout . The rental car giant, which filed for bankruptcy Friday, made a series of “strategic missteps and other blunders” that kept it behind competitors and burdened by debt, WSJ's Nora Naughton, Matt Wirz, and Cara Lombardo  report . “The crisis has battered the whole rental-car industry with a plunge in bookings. Hertz was more vulnerable than competitors, having borrowed about $19 billion directly and through a series of complex financial transactions. In addition to its sedan commitment, the company was held back by its troubled 2012 acquisition of Dollar Thrifty and efforts to move into the leisure-traveler market, a niche dominated by Avis Budget Group Inc. and Enterprise Holdings Inc.”
  Trump administration eyes new crackdown on Chinese telecoms .  Politico's John Hendel and Betsy Woodruff Swan : "The Trump administration is signaling a broader crackdown on the Chinese communications sector — well beyond the companies that have already come under harsh U.S. scrutiny. In an interview, a senior DOJ official told Politico that the government’s past objections to powerful Chinese telecommunications players operating in the U.S. may provide a blueprint for the Federal Communications Commission to pursue other firms as well.
  “This administration blessing comes potentially weeks ahead of the agency moving to revoke licenses for some of the few remaining Chinese telecom companies authorized to operate within the U.S., including China Telecom and China Unicom, and marks an escalation in the tensions between Washington and Beijing that have only grown more acute since the coronavirus pandemic began sweeping the globe.”
  Proposed audit requirement for U.S.-listed Chinese firms is inflaming tensions.  The Senate-passed bill would boot Chinese companies from U.S. stock exchanges unless they submit to review by American regulators. 
  “With the global economy reeling from the coronavirus, a worsening of the relationship could create more skepticism about the resumption of trade talks and send both U.S. and Chinese shares lower,” WSJ's Dave Michaels and Akane Otani  report . “Unlike other countries, China has never given U.S. regulators routine access to audit records needed to review the quality of financial accounting, according to U.S. officials, who have sought a deal for years. That covers about 200 companies with a total market value exceeding $1.4 trillion, according to S&P Global Market Intelligence.”
  From  Tom Toles : 
 