with Brent D. Griffiths 
  For a preview of economic policymaking in a second Trump term, consider the process  playing out  on Capitol Hill right now.
  President Trump has all but dealt himself out of leading the latest emergency response for the pandemic-ravaged economy . Instead, he has handed off to deputies a set of priorities — a payroll tax cut and funding for a new FBI headquarters — that Senate Republicans roundly dismissed. He went a step further Tuesday evening,  undercutting  the package GOP leaders are struggling to assemble as “semi-irrelevant” and noting he opposes elements of it.
  In the absence of presidential command,  Senate Republicans are sniping at each other, their  leadership , and their  bill itself .  More than 20 million Americans relying on federal unemployment benefits now  hang in limbo  as Republicans debate what to do about that expiring program. But that and other staples of the federal bailout have become  proxy fights  among the next generation of aspiring GOP leaders over the party’s direction.
  Indeed, with less than 100 days to until Election Day,  he has yet to detail an economic vision for a second term . In interviews over the last month, the president has botched friendly questions from  Fox News’s Sean Hannity  and  Sinclair's Eric Bolling  on his agenda, failing to name any policy objectives. Hannity gave him a do-over earlier this month that didn’t go much better. Here was the beginning of the president’s  answer :
  Trump went on to tick through other priorities: protecting the Second Amendment; confirming more judges, including to the Supreme Court (“The next president is going to be able to pick two or three or one or whatever,” he said); lowering drug prices; and “choice in school, so a parent can take their child to a school of their choice.”
  When I asked the campaign for more details, Trump deputy national press secretary Ken Farnaso turned the question around on former vice president Joe Biden.  “During President Trump’s first term, his unwavering leadership and successful economic policies built an American renaissance and the strongest economy in the world,” Farnaso said in an email. “On Election Day, Americans will get to decide between capitalism and socialism and make no mistake, Joe Biden’s progressive agenda will unravel the very fabric of our free society plunging us towards a path of no return.” 
  “A presidential campaign is a job interview, and it’s hard to argue you deserve a job if you can’t make a positive, compelling case what you’ll do with it,” said Michael Steel, a top aide to then-House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) and 2016 presidential candidate Jeb Bush.  “The American people deserve a choice of two futures and President Trump, frankly, isn’t offering one.” 
  Stephen Myrow, a top Treasury official in the George W. Bush administration, called the pandemic a “moment that requires a strong governing agenda from a White House that has a game plan” and deep ties to its own party on the Hill. He argues Trump has neither and is demonstrating in real time his inability to rally GOP lawmakers to a cause. “That’s something you can expect in a second term,” he says.
  Myrow now works as managing director for Beacon Policy Advisors, a policy research firm. He says  Trump has been so vague about his specific second-term intentions, it has been impossible to assemble an analysis of his plans.  Considering the unlikelihood of Republicans recapturing control of the House, Trump will be facing what for him would be at best a divided Congress. That will incentivize him to do more through executive action, Myrow says, but “anything he’s doing right now is for the sole purpose of reelection. You don’t know what he’d do afterwards."
  The presumptive Democratic nominee has  spelled out his agenda  in what by comparison registers as wonky granularity.  He tied a ribbon on his economic blueprint in a Tuesday speech outlining the fourth and final installment of his “Build Back Better” recovery plan.  The last piece of the proposal advocates spending tens of billions of dollars to address economic inequality among people of color.
  “The plan calls for dedicating $30 billion of previously proposed spending on a small-business opportunity fund for black, brown and Native American entrepreneurs,” Maura Ewing and Sean Sullivan  report . “Biden also proposed tripling the goal for federal contracting with small disadvantaged businesses, from 5 percent to at least 15 percent of all spending on materials and services by 2025… The former vice president said he wants [Trump] and Congress to create an emergency housing support program, along with promoting a refundable tax credit of up to $15,000 to help families purchase their first homes.”
  In the planks of the agenda Biden has already rolled out,  he described plans to spend $700 billion “on U.S. products and research to jump-start the domestic economy; eliminate carbon pollution from power plants by 2035 and spend $2  trillion to spur the clean-energy economy ; and invest $775  billion on helping to care for young and old Americans through universal preschool and other initiatives,” Maura and Sean write.
  The presumptive Democratic nominee has also laid out a proposal that would  raise  $4 trillion in taxes over a decade, mostly by rolling back Trump’s tax cuts for top earners and corporations. And earlier this month, a joint group of Biden allies and those of Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) — formed to sew up divisions between the party’s establishment and leftist wings —  presented  policy recommendations. They ranged from how to impose tougher rules on the financial sector to undoing Trump’s immigration crackdowns.
  “Executive orders would be signed, thick pieces of proposed legislation sent to Congress, phone calls placed to foreign leaders, international agreements reentered. New ethics guidelines would be instituted for the White House and new inspectors general would take up oversight positions,” Matt Viser  reports  this morning. 
  As the former vice president “hones his list of what to tackle on his first day were he to win the White House, he has pledged a portfolio of actions that would impact a wide and diverse array of American life. Biden representatives already have held preliminary discussions with top House and Senate Democrats about what to prioritize, according to campaign and congressional aides."
  The acknowledgment came as Republicans continued to struggle to find common ground:  McConnell "disavowed a key Trump administration priority in the bill — funding for a new FBI headquarters — while the second-ranking GOP senator suggested that Congress might be unable to make a deal in time to avert the expiration of emergency unemployment benefits on Friday,” Erica Werner, Seung Min Kim and Jeff Stein  report .
  “Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.) said Congress might have to pass a stand-alone extension of the unemployment benefits, a piecemeal approach that administration officials have floated but that Senate Republican leaders had avoided publicly embracing before now … If the wheels were not entirely off Tuesday, negotiations were not off to a great start. Democratic leaders accused McConnell of not wanting a deal at all, while one Republican senator called the new GOP bill ‘a mess.’”
  Sen. Ben Sasse (R-Neb.) went after Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin in a blistering statement: 
  Some lending facilities were set to expire near the end of September:  “'The three-month extension will facilitate planning by potential facility participants and provide certainty that the facilities will continue to be available to help the economy recover,' the Fed said,” Reuters's Lindsay Dunsmuir  reports .
  “The U.S. central bank said the extensions apply to the Primary Dealer Credit Facility, Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility, Primary Market Corporate Credit Facility, Secondary Market Corporate Credit Facility, Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility, Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility, and Main Street Lending Program. All are designed to keep credit flowing to businesses and households and stave off long-term harm to the economy."
  The executives will try to extol the public's love of their brands:  “ Amazon chief executive Jeff Bezos cited the e-commerce company’s ‘customer obsession’ for fueling its business success as he attempts to counter congressional antitrust concerns a day ahead of a House hearing probing the power of tech giants,”  Jay Greene and Elizabeth Dwoskin  report .
  “Bezos will swear an oath and appear at the hearing alongside Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg, Apple’s Tim Cook and Google’s Sundar Pichai. Lawmakers are examining the clout of the tech behemoths that represent a nearly $5 trillion slice of the U.S. economy. Other tech executives’ planned testimony also surfaced [last night].” You can read Bezos's full remarks  here . (Bezos also owns the Washington Post.)
  The hearing starts at noon Eastern:  Our Post colleagues will have live coverage starting at 11:30 a.m. and continuing after the hearing, which  you can watch  here . (Bonus: You can set a reminder to watch through that link). 
  What the other three will say: 
  This is the busiest week of the corporate earnings season:  “The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed 205.49 points lower, or 0.8 percent, at 26,379.28. The Nasdaq Composite dropped 1.3 percent to 10,402.09 and the S&P 500 dipped 0.6 percent to close at 3,218.44,” CNBC's Fred Imbert and Maggie Fitzgerald  report .
  “Shares of Amazon slipped 1.8 percent and Netflix declined by 1.4 percent. Alphabet shares fell 1.7 percent. Facebook shares dipped 1.5 percent and Apple closed 1.6 percent lower … Stocks that would benefit from an economic reopening rose. United and American Airlines gained more than 3 percent each. Delta advanced 1.7 percent. Carnival closed 4.2 percent higher and Norwegian Cruise Line jumped 6.3 percent.”
  Goldman warns about the dollar's status as reserve currency:  “Goldman strategists cautioned that U.S. policy is triggering currency ‘debasement fears’ that could end the dollar’s reign as the dominant force in global foreign-exchange markets,” Bloomberg News's John Ainger and Liz McCormick  report .
  “While that view is clearly still a minority one in most financial circles -- and the Goldman analysts don’t say they believe it will necessarily happen -- it captures a nervous vibe that has infiltrated the market this month: Investors worried that this money-printing will trigger inflation in years ahead have been bailing out of the dollar and piling furiously into gold.”   
  Scott pledged last year to donate a majority of her wealth:  The author and philanthropist “announced $1.7 billion in donations, including $40 million to Howard University — the largest gift from a single donor in the school’s 153-year history,” Lauren Lumpkin  reports .
  “The eight-figure gift to Howard will allow the historically black university to graduate students on time, complete infrastructure projects, retain faculty and develop programs for innovation and entrepreneurship, said Wayne A.I. Frederick, the university’s president.”
  Facebook offers money to reel in TikTok creators:  “Facebook Inc.’s Instagram has offered financial incentives to TikTok users with millions of followers to persuade them to use a new competing service, an escalation in a high-stakes showdown between the two social-media giants,” WSJ's Euirim Choi  reports .
  “Instagram has made lucrative offers to some of TikTok’s most popular creators to use the new service, Reels … Facebook is planning to unveil Reels next month. The potential payments for some would be in the hundreds of thousands of dollars …"
  The Goya boycott could impact the brand, experts say — just not the way you think (Emily Heil) 
  Via Columbia University economist Adam Tooze:
  Today: 
  Thursday: 
  Friday: 
 