with Brent D. Griffiths
  THE TICKER 
  President Trump’s push for emergency  coronavirus  relief is laying bare a glaring double standard: He decries socialism even as he’s practicing it.  
  On the one hand, the Trump administration wants $500 billion for loans and loan guarantees that Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin could tap for industry bailouts with few limits or oversight . That proposal  helped galvanize  Senate Democratic opposition to a $1.8 trillion package aimed at keeping businesses and workers afloat, throwing it into limbo and sending stock futures reeling.
  But as his administration reaches for unchecked authority to engineer a massive intervention in the marketplace, Trump is rejecting bipartisan pressure to conscript U.S. businesses to help churn out medical gear in dangerously short supply . His reasoning: Doing so would constitute a Venezuela-style violation of free market principles.
  The strategy points back to the president’s political interests. Trump and his team had been  hoping to frame  the 2020 presidential election as a contest between capitalism and socialism . They aimed to brand the Democratic Party and its eventual nominee as captive to radical ideas that would short-circuit the American wealth-creation machine.
  But the coronavirus has already put an emphatic end to the historically long economic expansion Trump inherited. And the president has yet to adapt his playbook  to a disaster that now threatens to usher in an economic collapse on a scale not seen since the Great Depression.
  Governors, health-care industry leaders and front-line medical workers are urging the president to tap the Defense Production Act, a Cold War-era law that  enables him  to force American manufacturers to make ventilators, masks, gowns and other basics for patients and caregivers.
  The president, after offering contradictory accounts, confirmed at his Sunday evening news conference that he has decided against it. “We're a country not based on nationalizing our business. Call a person over in Venezuela,” Trump said. “Ask them how did nationalization of their businesses work out? Not too well.”
  Instead, he said, he is relying on companies to step up voluntarily to meet the needs of health-care providers — a method that so far  has yielded  a patchwork and inadequate response.
  The move is “based on a bet that he can cajole the nation’s biggest manufacturers and tech firms to come together in a market-driven, if chaotic, consortium,”  the New York Times’s David Sanger, Ana Swanson and Maggie Haberman  report . “But it is far from clear that the effort to enlist companies like General Motors, Apple and Hanes, just a few of the firms that have promised to free up existing supplies of masks or repurpose 3-D printers to produce ventilator parts, constitutes an effective strategy.”
  From Trump: 
  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and leading corporate executives have lobbied the administration against using the Defense Production Act, the Times reports.
  Given the history-bending stakes, it’s reasonable to expect the presidential election now will turn on voters’ assessments of Trump’s handling of the crisis.  It is too early render those judgments. But the damage is already piling up — the stock market, for one, has erased all of the gains it recorded during Trump’s presidency, with no bottom in sight yet. Economists expect  more than a million workers  will lose their jobs by the end of the month as economic activity grinds to a halt; St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  warns  the jobless rate could hit 30 percent in the second quarter.   
  Against that backdrop,   Trump’s two-handed approach to the private sector at best looks more confused than principled . And at worst, trying to maximize his Treasury Secretary’s flexibility in bailing out vulnerable industries while declining to press other businesses into the nation’s cause is opening him up to charges of corporatism.
  “They’re throwing caution to the wind for average workers and people on Main Street and going balls to the wall for people on Wall Street," Sen. Joe Manchin III (D-W.Va.)  told  my Post colleagues.
  From Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), the ranking member on the Senate Finance Committee:
  From the New York Times columnist Binyamin Appelbaum:
  The bill the Senate did not move forward on Sunday “does not include many restrictions on the companies that receive these funds,”  my Post colleagues note. “For example, companies are required to maintain the same employment levels that they had as of March 13 ‘to the extent practicable,’ but it does not define what practicable means.” 
  It does, however, “appear to prohibit stock buybacks at firms that receive the emergency loans and gives the Treasury Department the opportunity to take equity stakes in the firms so that taxpayers could benefit if a firm regains its financial footing.”
  It isn’t the first time Trump has sought a heavy-handed approach to private enterprise, in spite of his free-market rhetoric. 
  In the trade fights that defined the middle of his term, for example, the president chose winners and losers in the private sector as he levied tariffs and carved out exemptions, in some cases  for specific companies . And he has touted his administration's bailout of farmers caught in the crossfire, a program that cost  more than double  what the Obama administration provided to domestic automakers after the financial crisis.
  But the coronavirus relief package presents a new twist: Trump’s own businesses could benefit, a point Democrats have been quick to note. 
  The president declined to pledge he would reject the help. “I ran and everybody knew I was a rich person. I built a great company. And people knew that. But I agreed to do things I didn't have to. I still don't have to,” he  said  at his news conference. “And instead of being thanked for, again, not agreeing to do it but just for not doing it, I get excoriated all the time. So I've learned, let's just see what happens.”
  In the United States: 
  Corporate fallout: 
  International fallout: 
  —  Occidental nears settlement with Icahn:  “Occidental OXY Petroleum Corp. is nearing a truce with Carl Icahn that would conclude one of the highest-profile corporate clashes of the past year and usher the activist investor into the embattled oil producer’s board room as it seeks to recover from a series of setbacks,” the WSJ's Cara Lombardo and Rebecca Elliott  report .
  “Andrew Langham and Nicholas Graziano, two lieutenants of the billionaire investor, would receive seats on Occidental’s board under the terms currently being discussed, people familiar with the matter said. Mr. Icahn and the company would also mutually agree on a third, independent director, who is likely to be Herbalife Nutrition Ltd. board member Margarita Paláu-Hernández, some of the people said.” 
  PG&E to Plead Guilty to Involuntary Manslaughter Charges in Deadly California Wildfire (WSJ) 
  The curve of new cases in the U.S. shows an alarming trend, via Eurasia Group's Ian Bremmer:
  Hourly work is collapsing, via economist Adam Tooze: 
  Tuesday: 
  Thursday: 
  Friday: 
   
 