with Brent D. Griffiths 
  President Trump blasted income inequality for growing out of control during the pandemic, pointing to a report noting billionaires have seen their wealth boom as up to 30 million Americans collect unemployment. “Changes must be made, and soon!” Trump  tweeted  Saturday. 
  But his response to the economic crisis has dealt a major blow to his image as a populist billionaire fighting for workers where Democratic elites had not – a sentiment that helped carry Trump to victory in 2016. 
  Consider the optics: Just hours before Trump's tweet, his top emissaries were on Capitol Hill pushing against a full and lengthy extension of $600 in enhanced federal benefits to jobless Americans that expired last week. And on Sunday — as the talks dragged on, with millions of people in limbo — Trump made the 284th visit of his presidency to one of his own golf courses.
  Now polls indicate voters now think Trump is the one who has lost touch. Just 37 percent in a  recent Quinnipiac University survey  say he cares about average Americans , while 61 percent say he doesn’t. That represents a low for him on the matter — and a sharp drop from the 51 percent of Americans who gave him favorable marks on the question in late November 2016. Voters give former vice president Joe Biden a markedly better score, with 59 percent telling Quinnipiac in its most recent survey he cares about average Americans while a third of them say he does not. 
  The president’s most outspoken priorities for the next round of emergency economic relief, meanwhile, haven’t centered on the jobless Americans closest to the brink.  Instead, he  continues to push  for a payroll tax cut that even those in his own party have rejected as providing help to the wrong people — those who already have jobs — while doing little to encourage hiring. And his team has  insisted  on providing $1.75 billion for a new FBI headquarters in downtown Washington, an initiative with no discernible relevance to the economic crisis. The president’s push has drawn criticism from Democrats that Trump is moving to stifle competition for the  Trump International Hotel , a block away. 
  Trump himself has only known life on the rarefied end of the income divide, a fact underscored by the latest financial disclosures from his business empire: The Trump Organization reported $446 million in revenue in 2019, up about 2 percent from the previous year, according to disclosures the White House released on Friday. “The documents do not give details about 2020, when Trump’s company has been slammed by the coronavirus pandemic,” David Fahrenthold and Joshua Partlow  note . “Some Trump properties were closed for weeks at a time, and others saw their occupancy rates nosedive, as the broader travel industry declined.”
  Eric Trump, the president’s second son and an executive at the company, put a bullish spin on the report: “Our businesses thrived with strong revenues while remaining underleveraged and maintaining very low levels of debt,” his statement said. 
  Trump’s golf courses proved a strength, with several reporting double-digit revenue gains ,  per the New York Times . 
  Trump has received some heat for the amount of time he has managed to spend golfing, especially in light of the criticism he heaped on then-President Barack Obama for the same activity. But the visual carries the potential to do more damage to Trump amid public health and economic crises, conveying a sense Trump is taking his leisure while the country suffers. From Atlanta Journal-Constitution cartoonist Mike Luckovich last month:
  Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner, meanwhile,  earned  at least $36.2 million while they served in the White House last year, according to disclosures the president’s daughter and her husband filed Friday. The average American household  pulled in  about $63,000 last year — or roughly what Ivanka and Jared earned in 15 hours from their outside companies and investments.
  Trump’s daughter took heat last month for  urging  out-of-work Americans to “find something new,” as part of a White House effort to promote skills-based jobs that don’t require a college degree. It landed with a thud. Critics noted the multimillionaire daughter of a billionaire for whom she now works in the White House is not the most credible messenger to the millions seeking work amid an economic collapse, when job seekers outnumber open positions by more than three-to-one.
  Mnuchin argued on Sunday the $600 federal payments to the unemployed are too generous. Republicans are proposing instead to cut the payment to $200 or use a formula that would peg it to two-thirds of their wages before they lost their jobs. “In some cases, people are overpaid, and we want to make sure there are the right incentives,” he  said  on ABC’s “This Week." 
  “But some  preliminary studies on the issue have not found the temporary bump is a disincentive for a noticeable number of workers ,” Erica Werner and Eli Rosenberg  report . “A recent study by three Yale economists found workers receiving the extra benefits returned to work at roughly the same rate as others, finding ‘no evidence that more generous benefits disincentivized work.’” 
  The extra payments have helped people meet basic needs, including making rent and mortgage payments. But the benefit expired last week, along with a  moratorium on evictions  from federally-backed housing, putting more than 12 million renters at risk of losing their homes.
  Mnuchin, the Goldman Sachs veteran now helping lead the administration’s response to this crisis, found opportunity to profit in the last one.  He led a group of investors that put up $1.6 billion to buy the failed IndyMac Bank from the FDIC in 2009 as the great financial crisis hit full tilt. They completed a $3.4 billion merger with CIT Group in 2015, and Mnuchin  walked away  with a $10.9 million severance, on top of what he earned from stock options and a multimillion-dollar salary running the bank.
  Mnuchin contended in his Senate confirmation hearings that his group stepped in to salvage a failed institution no others would touch. “OneWest inherited some 178,000 foreclosures already in the pipeline,” Politico  reported.  "As house prices fell and job losses mounted, more home seizures were inevitable.” Mnuchin emphasized the bank under his leadership  made  more than 100,000 modification offers to borrowers. 
  But the bank also foreclosed on some 36,000 homes, by one estimate, and its federal regulator  detailed  cases of bank employees falsely claiming to review individual foreclosure filings. In 2011, the Treasury Department that Mnuchin would later lead  forced  his bank into an agreement to monitor the conduct of its employees.
  The divergence between stocks and the economy continues to worry some investors:  But “most money managers are wary of cutting equity exposure too drastically in a market that has rallied more than 40 percent since late March and stands near all-time highs despite widespread economic devastation and a global pandemic,” Reuters's April Joyner  reports .
  “That disconnect is pushing some investors to beef up cash positions or tilt their portfolios toward Europe, where economic prospects appear to be brighter than in the United States.”
  The news offers some hope about the recovery:  “More than halfway through second-quarter earnings, 82.1 percent of companies reporting have surpassed profit expectations, which would be the highest in the history of Refinitiv IBES data going back to 1994,” Reuters's Caroline Valetkevitch  reports .
  “What’s more, the size of the beats is well above what is typical. S&P 500 companies have beaten earnings expectations by a whopping 21.7 percent, also set to be the highest on record since 1994, based on Refinitiv’s data as of Friday. The latest big boost to numbers came late last week, when results from Facebook and trillion-dollar market value companies Apple, Amazon.com and Google parent Alphabet surpassed forecasts."
  Fed weighs abandoning preemptive rate moves to curb inflation:  “Instead, Fed officials would take a more relaxed view by allowing for periods in which inflation would run slightly above the central bank’s 2 percent target, to make up for past episodes in which inflation ran below the target,” the WSJ's Nick Timiraos  reports .
  “Fed Chairman Jerome Powell hinted at the shift at a news conference last week when he said the central bank would soon conclude a comprehensive review of its policy-making strategy that began last year … Even before the severe shock from the pandemic, the Fed had grown concerned about spells of low inflation that have bedeviled authorities in Japan over the past two decades and in Europe for the past decade.”
  Bitcoin is gaining again:  “After trading flat for months, bitcoin rose as high as $11,868 on Saturday from around $9,100 in early July, extending its gain for 2020 to 65 percent,” the WSJ's Paul Vigna  reports .
  “While volatility is nothing new for bitcoin, the latest run came abruptly. Since surging on a wild boom in 2017, bitcoin and its cryptocurrency peers have been largely flying under the radar. Meanwhile, companies including Facebook Inc. and central banks have got most of the attention as they build their own digital currencies.” 
  Around the world: 
  The company's CEO spoke to Trump:  “Microsoft said in a blog post that chief executive Satya Nadella and Trump had spoken and that the company is committed to addressing Trump’s concerns about the social media platform. Trump previously indicated he was not in favor of a deal and said that he planned to ban TikTok in the United States,” Rachel Lerman  reports .
  “If it goes through, the acquisition could dramatically shift the Big Tech landscape, adding a legacy giant into the scramble for social media users’ attention. Microsoft, currently valued at $1.55 trillion, is the third-most valuable company in the world and is one of the only ones positioned to take on such a purchase. Microsoft was conspicuously absent from a landmark antitrust hearing on Capitol Hill on Wednesday, when Facebook, Google, Apple and Amazon chief executives testified on their companies’ power.”
  A number of Republican lawmakers are backing the sale:  But   “Sen. Roger Wicker (R-Miss.), who chairs the Commerce Committee, [cautioned] that “tight security measures need to be part of any deal in order to protect consumer data and ensure no foreign access,” Reuters's David Shepardson  reports .
  “Mnuchin said he and U.S. congressional leaders ‘all agree there has to be a change.’ He added that Trump could “either force a sale or the president can block the app using (International Emergency Economic Powers Ac).”
  The probe will focus on a 2013 transaction with a Kushner-owned company . “In June 2013, the banker, Rosemary Vrablic, and two of her Deutsche Bank colleagues purchased a Park Avenue apartment for about $1.5 million from a company called Bergel 715 Associates, according to New York property records,” the NYT's Jesse Drucker and David Enrich  report . 
  “Mr. Kushner, a senior adviser to the president, disclosed in an annual personal financial report late Friday that he and his wife, Ivanka Trump, had received $1 million to $5 million last year from Bergel 715. A person familiar with Mr. Kushner’s finances, who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly, said he held an ownership stake in the entity at the time of the transaction with Ms. Vrablic… Typically banks restrict employees from doing personal business with clients because of the potential for conflicts between the employees’ interests and those of the bank."
  Today: 
  Tuesday: 
  Wednesday: 
  Thursday: 
  Friday: 
 