with Brent D. Griffiths 
  As more than 30 million jobless Americans  face  their second week without the lifeline of enhanced federal unemployment benefits, the White House has been pushing forward on another front: exploring what President Trump can do to cut capital gains taxes most heavily borne by the rich.
  The answer, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and top White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow  concluded  Wednesday, is not much without congressional action.
  But the fact that the administration is still  mulling  the move — which provides the biggest after-tax income boost to the top 1 percent of earners, according to an  analysis  by the nonpartisan Tax Foundation — gives an insight into a Trump team that remains scattered in its response to the pandemic-fueled economic crisis.
  If the administration's goal is to help the most vulnerable, “this is not the right tool,”  Tax Foundation senior policy analyst Garrett Watson says. “For the most part, it does benefit higher earners, people not as likely to be hurting as much right now. And it's not very fast.”
  Hopes of advancing a major legislative package of emergency economic relief remain on ice as talks  stall . In the absence of that aid,  Trump officials are struggling to refine unilateral actions the president unveiled Saturday  that have presented a number of implementation problems. 
  Take Trump’s bid to continue federal support for unemployed workers after their $600 weekly benefit expired at the end of last month. The president first proposed offering workers $400 a week, with states bearing $100 of that cost. But the administration has been forced to reconsider after cash-strapped states indicated they couldn’t participate, with a bipartisan array of governors  declaring  the plan unworkable.
  And White House officials now are offering conflicting alternatives. “ By Tuesday evening, at least five contradictory versions of this parallel benefit system had been communicated by various Trump officials , according to a running tally from Georgetown law professor David Super,” columnist Catherine Rampell  writes . “And if the original design was in a statutory gray area, Super says, the revised versions waiving additional state contributions are ‘not remotely legal.’ ”
  Per Rampell,”That’s because the 25 percent ($100) state funding match included in Trump’s executive action wasn’t there just for kicks. It was there because it’s  required under the law  Trump cited as giving him authority to create this benefit program: the Stafford Act."
  The president’s push requires employers to opt in and stop taking 6.2 percent out of their workers’ paychecks from September through the end of the year. But then they would be on the hook to withhold extra money next year to repay back taxes.
  Given that headache, “few employers are likely to take advantage of the deferral,”  argues  Alan Viard, a resident scholar at the right-leaning American Enterprise Institute, concluding  the proposal therefore “looks like a whole lot of nothing.” 
  Mnuchin laid out a different possibility: That Trump will seek to forgive those deferred payroll tax collections at the end of the year.  “So he’ll go back to Congress when he wins the election and ask Congress to have this money forgiven  and have the Social Security trust fund fully topped up so in no way does this impact Social Security,” the treasury secretary  said  in a Wednesday interview on Fox Business.
  And the president had a simple answer for how the government would make up for the lost revenue:
  The answers have not satisfied the U.S. Chamber of Commerce , which wrote Mnuchin on Wednesday asking for more clarity about the plan. Not only is the initiative “ surrounded by uncertainty as to its application and implementation, it creates a substantial tax liability for employees at the end of the deferral period,” Caroline Harris, the business lobby's chief tax policy counsel, wrote. Without congressional action to forgive the deferred taxes, she wrote the plan “threatens to impose serious hardships on employees.” 
  Kudlow acknowledged Trump's order on evictions accomplishes less than advertised. As he told Fox Business on Wednesday, “It’s not quite an eviction moratorium, but it’s certainly eviction protection." Indeed, as we noted  here  earlier this week, the president’s move over the weekend merely directs the Department of Health and Human Services and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to “consider measures” to prevent evictions.
  But Trump insisted in a Wednesday evening news conference that strapped renters and homeowners won’t lose the roofs over their heads.  “I want to make it unmistakably clear that I'm protecting people from evictions,”  he  said .
  With its emergency response snarled on multiple fronts, administration officials are downplaying the urgency of action.  The president touted a recovery he described as a “strong V” — a view many economists say they don't share.  The economy, he said, is “coming back very strongly. It’s coming back at a level that’s far greater than anybody anticipated, and we’re very proud of that.”
  And Kudlow questioned the need for more congressionally-approved emergency relief. The president’s top economic hand said he doesn’t think the economy “particularly” needs more spending from Washington. “I think you need targeted money,” he  told  Fox Business, but “I don’t think the economy is going to rely solely on this.”
  Yet top Federal Reserve officials said neither the public health crisis nor the economic shock it has precipitated are under control.  Boston Fed President Eric Rosengren said the inability of states to curb new  coronavirus  outbreaks will prolong the economic downturn, the Wall Street Journal’s Nick Timiraos  reports .
  And San Francisco Fed President Mary C. Daly said Congress “will have to build a bigger bridge…now that we know the coronavirus is not behind us and now that we’re in this for a longer period of time than we hoped.”
  The S&P 500 touched a new record Wednesday before edging down . “ The S&P 500 popped above its highest-ever closing level, and stands poised to erase its bear-market plunge in record time. But as stirring as the recovery has been, it’s also a case study in how stock benchmarks can be misleading when it comes to the experience of investors at large,” Bloomberg's Vildana Hajric, Lu Wang and Claire Ballentine  report .  
  “ It took just 175 days for the index to go from peak to trough to peak , a recovery that has come faster than any comparable one in the past. The previous 12 cycles that saw stocks recover from a drop of at least 20% took an average of four years. Since bottoming in March, the S&P 500 has risen about 50%, with more than 40 of its members doubling. More than $12 trillion dollars of share value that vanished is now all but restored. The S&P 500 rose as much as 1.6% to 3,387.89, briefly surpassing its Feb. 19 closing record. It pulled back in the final half hour of trading to end at 3,380, 0.2% shy of the all-time high.”
  Economists expect more than a million new jobless claims.  “Unemployment claims likely held steady at historically high levels last week, an indication companies continued to lay off workers nearly five months into the coronavirus pandemic,” WSJ's Sarah Chaney  reports . 
  “Economists estimate initial unemployment claims fell slightly to 1.1 million last week, which would mark 21 straight weeks claims logged in above 1 million. New applications for unemployment benefits declined in the prior week and are down significantly from a peak of near 7 million in March, but still nearly twice the pre-pandemic record of 695,000.”
  July tax filings helped boost revenue, but U.S. budget deficit is tipping toward $3 trillion for 2020 (Jeff Stein) 
  U.S. consumer prices push higher; high unemployment likely to keep lid on inflation (NYT) 
  Some companies were starting to shift production before the pandemic:  “The Mexican government calls it a ‘relocation strategy’ — a campaign to convince companies that they’d be safer bringing production closer to the U.S. market, to a country with a newly signed North American trade deal and a warmer relationship to the U.S. government,” Kevin Sieff  reports  this morning.
  “Aside from trade tensions, firms complained about intellectual property concerns, rising labor costs and political instability. In February, the consulting firm Gartner found that 33 percent of global supply-chain leaders had either shifted sourcing and manufacturing activities out of China or planned to in the next three years.”
  Confucius Institutes draw U.S. scrutiny:  “The Trump administration is increasing scrutiny of a long-established Chinese-government funded program that’s dedicated to teaching Chinese language and culture in the U.S. and other nations, the latest escalation of tensions with Beijing,” Bloomberg News's Peter Martin  reports .
  “The State Department plans to announce as soon as Thursday that Confucius Institutes in the U.S. -- many of which are based on college campuses -- will need to register as ‘foreign missions’ … The designation would amount to a conclusion that Confucius Institutes are ‘substantially owned or effectively controlled’ by a foreign government. That would subject them to administrative requirements similar to those for embassies and consulates.”
  Biden favors a much more measured approach:  “Harris has been more aggressive in outlining how the federal government should respond to the economic crisis, introducing both the bill for monthly checks and a proposal to ban evictions, foreclosures, rent increases and utility shutdowns for the duration of the pandemic,” Jeff Stein  reports  of the differences between the former vice president and his running mate.
  “Harris’s positions as a U.S. senator and during her 2020 presidential run may pose a challenge for the Biden campaign, which has been wary of moving too far left on economic policy announcements as it tries to maintain its polling lead over [Trump]. A spokesman for the Biden campaign declined to comment on whether the campaign supports Harris’s effort to provide $2,000 monthly checks throughout the crisis. The spokesman also declined to comment on Harris’s ‘RELIEF Act,’ which in addition to banning evictions and foreclosures would bar landlords from reporting unpaid rent to credit agencies.”
  The ride share company continues to fight with the state over how to classify drivers:  “Uber and rival Lyft both have about a week left to appeal a preliminary injunction granted by a California judge on Monday that will prohibit the companies from continuing to classify their drivers as independent workers. Following the order will require Uber and Lyft to provide benefits and unemployment insurance for workers,” CNBC's Lauren Feiner  reports .
  “ California’s attorney general and three city attorneys  brought the lawsuit  against the companies under the state’s new law, Assembly Bill 5, that aims to provide benefits to gig workers core to a company’s business by classifying them as employees.” 
  Goldman Sachs vies for GM's credit card:  “The Wall Street firm is among a small number of bidders for the auto maker’s credit-card business, which has about $3 billion in outstanding balances,” WSJ's Liz Hoffman and AnnaMaria Andriotis  report .
  “In their pitches to GM, Goldman and Barclays have pushed the idea of cars as e-commerce portals … an effort that the auto maker itself has embraced. GM was the first major car company to allow drivers to order food, pay for gas and book hotel stays from dashboard touch screens, and it signed up merchants including Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. and Shell.”
  Media titan Sumner Redstone dies at 97:  “Sumner Redstone, a combative and daring dealmaker who in his 60s turned his family’s movie theater chain into one of the world’s largest media empires, with holdings that included Paramount Pictures film studios, CBS, MTV and the publishing house Simon & Schuster, died Aug. 11 at his home in Los Angeles,” David Marino-Nachison and Adam Bernstein  write  in his Post obit.
  "In recent years, as the mogul’s mental and physical decline became increasingly apparent, legal and public-relations battles erupted among his presumed successors, members of the family and an array of other hangers-on. All had a stake in inheriting chunks of his $40 billion business empire, his personal fortune or both.
  Millennials are feeling cautious again about resuming pre-pandemic activities, data from Morning Consult shows. Via Charles Schwab & Co. chief investment strategist Liz Ann Sonders: 
  Thursday: 
  Friday: 
 