The TAKE with  Rick Klein 
  The end is in sight for the  Democratic primary campaign .
  The next move in this race belongs to  Sen.  Bernie Sanders , and him alone. But it's looking like a quieter close all around -- and not just because public rallies are off for a while and Sanders chose not to speak Tuesday night.
  A range of factors are pointing toward a cleaner and earlier exit by Sanders than anything the party witnessed in 2016.
  Start with President  Donald Trump , and the urgency felt by Democrats in matching up against him. Former Vice President Joe Biden's victory   was a statement about his strengths  in that area -- and it matters that Biden is flat-out beating Sanders head-to-head, among voters across demographic and geographic groups.
  Then there's this moment around the new  coronavirus.  The issue on everyone's minds these days was a factor for voters, as Biden's exit-poll edge over Sanders in trust to handle a crisis made clear.
  Perhaps the biggest factor, though, is personal. Sanders and Hillary Clinton simply disliked each other.
  The Biden-Sanders relationship is different, though. They respect each other; as Biden's gracious and  subdued speech Tuesday night  made clear, they need each other for the shared goal of defeating Trump.
  There could still be a debate this weekend, and some attacks, and more than some online heat. But things are winding down in the Democratic race -- and it may be that both candidates still standing are alright with that.
  The RUNDOWN with  MaryAlice Parks 
  Less than two weeks ago there were serious conversations in the  Democratic Party  about how to handle the possibility of a contested convention.
  This week, that is a near mathematical impossibility.
  A shorter primary means a longer general  election  -- and make no mistake -- progressive organizations and organizers continue to be worried behind the scenes about the  former vice president’s  ability to sustain his winning streak through November.
  They point to the attacks Trump has already lobbed against Biden -- mocking his stumbles on the stump -- and argue seven more months of that sort of rhetoric could do serious damage to voters' confidence. Let alone all the other topics the president could raise -- as he has done before -- from Biden’s family to his record on trade.
  Of course, a long general campaign swings both ways and every move the president makes  in handling this current   health care crisis is being viewed by voters differently in an election year too.
  As such, it is likely that  Sanders  is taking incoming advice of all stripes now. Some people close to him are likely arguing that all of  Biden's vulnerabilities  should be litigated and discussed as a part of an ongoing process as more states vote, while others are looking at the map and math ahead and warning him that any blows he lands against Biden could bruise.
  The TIP with  Kendall Karson 
  Michigan wasn't just a  critical win for Biden,  or the biggest delegate prize of the night, it was the first diverse, 2020 battleground in the Midwest to weigh in on the nominating contest.
  The former vice president  didn't just win statewide, further cementing his case of electability over Sanders, but he also claimed the backing of all 12 of Michigan's pivot counties Tuesday night, which previously voted for both  Trump  and President Barack Obama.
  With wins in Bay, Calhoun, Eaton, Gogebic, Isabella, Lake, Macomb, Manistee, Monroe, Saginaw, Shiawassee and Van Buren counties, Biden gave an early preview of  Democrats' electability fortunes  in some areas of the country that could potentially decide November's general election.
  Next Tuesday brings another round of primaries, and this time, the battlefield runs through three swing states Florida, Arizona and Ohio, plus Illinois, giving Biden another glimpse of his strength across more key regions ahead of the competitive race to come.
  THE PLAYLIST 
  ABC News' "Start Here" podcast.   Wednesday morning's episode features a wrap-up of Tuesday night's Democratic primary results with ABC News' Adam Kelsey. Then, we hear from Michelle Rollefson, who finds herself out of work due to novel coronavirus. And, ABC News Foreign Correspondent James Longman tells us about the state of the travel industry and he begins a quarantine period after returning from Italy.  http://apple.co/2HPocUL 
  ABC News' "Powerhouse Politics" podcast.  ABC News Political Director Rick Klein and Chief White House Correspondent Jonathan Karl unpack the state of the race following Tuesday's Democratic primaries in Idaho, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, North Dakota and Washington.  https://apple.co/2RgxmLL 
  WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW TODAY 
  Download the  ABC News app  and select "The Note" as an item of interest to receive the day's sharpest political analysis every weekday. 
  The Note is a  daily ABC News feature  that highlights the key political moments of the day ahead. Please check back tomorrow for the latest. 
 