I needed to do two kinds of research when writing “ Theories of International Politics and Zombies .” The first was mastering the zombie genre. The second was reading the social science literature on the politics of disasters and pandemics, because those kind of events most closely mirrored what a zombie apocalypse would look like. The conclusion I drew from that research, which  I noted during the 2014 Ebola outbreak as well , was that conflicting trends would dominate the U.S. response to a emergent threat:
  This certainly happened during the 2014 Ebola outbreak. As  Yuval Levin noted at the time , the Obama administration was overly confident in its ability to cope with the disease. Fortunately, bureaucracies moved quickly down the learning curve, the Obama administration got out in front of the politics, and the pandemic never got past the containment phase in the United States.
  Fast forward to 2020, and some of the same dynamics seem to be at play in the Trump administration’s handling of the novel coronavirus that causes the disease covid-19. The bureaucracy — composed of the experts dedicated to solving the problem — royally screwed up its initial handling of the crisis. The Department of Health and Human Services  overruled  the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in how infected Americans trapped in Japan were brought back to this country.  According to a department whistleblower , HHS also appears to have bollixed its handling of Americans returning from Wuhan, China, leading to community spread of the virus in California.
  The CDC is hardly blameless. Its initial test for the coronavirus  was faulty . Furthermore, long-standing bureaucratic rivalries led to absurd moments like  an FDA official getting locked out  of the CDC’s Atlanta headquarters.
  So let’s be clear, the experts were far from perfect in handling the initial stages of this crisis. And the politicians, as with the Ebola outbreak, also  radiated a false sense of calm . In January and February, the Trump White House kept insisting all was well, even though it very clearly was not.
  The result has been a passel of stories in the past 72 hours that all arrive at the same conclusion: The United States blew its window of opportunity to prepare for the pandemic that is now about to happen.
  There are, unfortunately, three important differences between the Obama administration’s Ebola response and the Trump administration’s covid-19 response. They are all related to the unique incompetence of President Trump coping with a crisis not of his own making.
  First,  Trump’s toddler traits  have exacerbated the mismanagement of the situation. The president’s short attention span and quick temper compromised his administration’s ability to handle the crucial weeks when containment was still possible. According to my Post colleagues  Ashley Parker, Yasmeen Abutaleb, and Lena H. Sun , “during a late January meeting at the White House, Azar was having trouble focusing Trump’s full attention on his coronavirus briefing.”
  A month later, multiple reports  confirm  Trump blew his stack when Nancy Messonnier, director of the CDC’s National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, said on the record that the virus would spread.
  All of this was before Trump’s train-wreck presser at the CDC on Friday. Trump flat-out acknowledged he wanted low numbers of reported infected Americans even if that meant doing things like  not actively looking for possible infections  or keeping people quarantined on cruise ships. It was so disconcerting that  Wired’s Adam Rogers  admitted to being rattled:
  For me, the most disconcerting part of it was watching public health officials just nod along to Trump’s falsehoods. Which leads to the second difference: Trump’s staff has now adopted some of the president’s worst toddler traits. According to  Politico’s Dan Diamond , back in January “Trump’s aides mocked and belittled Azar as alarmist, as he warned the president of a major threat to public health and his own economic agenda.” The Post  reported last week  that Trump’s close advisers share Trump’s incapacity for long-range thinking:
  Similarly,  the AP’s Mike Stobbe  reported “The White House overruled health officials who wanted to recommend that elderly and physically fragile Americans be advised not to fly on commercial airlines because of the new  coronavirus .” That sounds like a White House that is trying so hard to avoid any immediate bad news that it cannot recognize the disaster it is overseeing.
  Aides are jockeying so fiercely to stay in Trump’s good graces that it leads to absurd moments like the mid-40s U.S. surgeon general  saying on a Sunday show  that, “The president, he sleeps less than I do and he’s healthier than what I am.” As  Politico’s Diamond  reported, “Trump’s unpredictable demands and attention to public statements — and his own susceptibility to flattery — have created an administration where top officials feel constantly at siege, worried that the next presidential tweet will decide their professional future, and panicked that they need to regularly impress him.”
  Trump cannot focus, and he has denuded his staff’s ability to do the same. Neither of these differences is good. Nor is the last the most important difference. Whatever mistakes were made back in 2014, the Obama administration kept Ebola contained. The novel coronavirus is now beyond containment, however. We are now in the mitigation phase. Trump’s go-to impulses of closing borders and blaming foreigners will not work, because the virus is now as American as apple pie.
  Over the next week, as testing becomes more widely available and as community spread continues, the number of reported infections and deaths will rise. People who have not panicked yet will begin to freak out. And the federal government has squandered  the good will it had  among most of the country.
  Everything in this column is about how Trump’s pathologies have compromised his administration’s ability to cope with the public health aspects of this crisis. But this extends beyond health. The hard-working staff here will address some of those other concerns in this week’s columns.
 