There are at least 985,443 cases of coronavirus in the US, and at least 55,952 people have died, according to Johns Hopkins University's  tally of cases .
  On Monday, Johns Hopkins reported 19,658 new cases and 1,071 reported deaths. 
  The totals include cases from all 50 states, the District of Columbia and other US territories, as well as repatriated cases.
  
  
  The Javits Convention Center field hospital in New York City has treated 1,093 patients so far, according to Northwell Health spokesperson Terry Lynam.
  The center was treating 74 patients as of Monday night.
  The USNS Comfort, a hospital ship that was docked in the New York City harbor,  discharged its last patient  Sunday, Lynam previously confirmed to CNN. The Comfort treated both coronavirus and non-coronavirus patients.
  CNN’s Ryan Brown previously reported the USNS Comfort will depart New York as early as the end of the month, according to a US Navy official.
  Indiana residents can now access free mental health resources online that have been vetted by experts, Gov. Eric Holcomb announced today.
  The resources will be on a new website,  BeWellIndiana.org , launched by the Indiana Family and Social Services Administration, and are designed to help with anxiety, depression and other mental health issues caused by the pandemic. It includes information for people experiencing first-time issues as well as existing mental health concerns.
  Initially, BeWellIndiana.org will focus on the various mental health challenges due to Covid-19, but will continue to evolve as a resource beyond the current crisis.
  The site will have information ranging from coping mechanisms, crisis counseling, how to self-monitor for signs of stress, domestic violence resources, substance use disorder and recovery and tips for helping children, youth and teens. 
  Videos featuring medical experts, people in recovery and other practicing Indiana clinicians addressing specific mental health topics are also available on the site.
  
  
  San Francisco needs to increase testing by two to three times the current rate before the city can relax the current health orders, Public Health Officer Dr. Grant Colfax said at a news conference Monday. 
  San Francisco has tested a total of 15,610 people, according to the city's Covid-19 data tracker. At least 1,424 people tested positive.
  Colfax also said the city cannot return to normalcy until there is a sustained decline in the number of people hospitalized. 
  "We need numbers to start dropping significantly and just stay down for several weeks," Colfax said. "That could happen if we continue on our current course." 
  
  
  Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp announced Monday the state's shelter-in-place remains in effect until April 30.
  Some businesses, including hair and nail salons, tattoo parlors and bowling alleys, were allowed to reopen on last Friday. Restaurants and movie theaters were allowed to open Monday.
  The governor said a team continues to monitor state data and guidance from the White House and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
  "We're going to be making some decisions, most likely in the next couple of days, of what the next week, two weeks or month looks like based on that data," Kemp said.
  
  
  President Trump said he “never even thought” of changing the date of the upcoming presidential election on November 3, despite former Vice President Biden suggesting Trump would attempt a delay.
  Trump also added that Biden never said he would try to delay the election — despite Biden saying those words exactly during a virtual fundraiser last week, according to a pool report.
  "Mark my words: I think he is gonna try to kick back the election somehow, come up with some rationale why it can't be held," Biden said on the call.
  Trump  cannot unilaterally change the date of the election  in November, as it has been set  into law by federal statute and Congress would have to approve such a move.  
  However, that has not stopped some Democrats from worrying that he will try to do so, and voters asked the previously large field of Democratic presidential candidates if they had concerns that Trump would try to delay the election or refuse to leave office if he were defeated in November.
  
  Watch: 
  
  
  
  Face masks will be required for flight attendants during every mainline and regional flight starting May 1, American Airlines said in a statement Monday.
  The airline will also begin distributing personal protective equipment, including sanitizing wipes or gels and a face mask to customers in early May “as supplies and operational conditions allow.”
  
  
  The Los Angeles Lakers received and repaid an approximately $4.6 million Payroll Protection Program loan, a source told CNN.
  The L.A. Lakers qualify as a small business because the organization only has 303 part-time and full-time employees. 
  The organization repaid the loan "within days" of receiving it after realizing that the government's funds had been depleted.
  A source told CNN the team is not planning to furlough or lay off any of its employees and that its top executives agreed to defer 20% of their salaries to ensure team employees could be paid.  
  The Lakers have contributed to a fund, along with the L.A. Clippers and L.A. Kings, to provide financial support to employees of the Staples Center. Last week the Lakers joined other Los Angeles area professional sports teams to create "Teams for LA" to benefit the Mayor's Fund for Los Angeles.
   
  
  
  President Trump was asked about his retweet of someone who claimed Democrats had inflated the coronavirus mortality rate, deflecting from addressing the actual claim by suggesting China was not accurately reporting coronavirus infection numbers.
  “Do you believe that’s true, that there’s some sort of conspiracy theory regarding the number of infections states are reporting?” a reporter at Monday’s Rose Garden news conference asked.
  Trump replied, “Well I can only say what we’re doing. We’re reporting very accurately.”
  “If you look at other countries, other countries are not. You could look at China. You could look at numerous countries where I don’t think those are right numbers. I can only say what we’re doing. It’s very important to us to accurate reporting. And that’s what we’re doing,” he added.
  CNN’s Daniel Dale has  fact-checked the claim  in Trump’s retweet.
  The tweet alleged that people had tried to oust Trump through illegitimate means before the pandemic, then added: "Do you really think these lunatics wouldn't inflate the mortality rates by underreporting the infection rates in an attempt to steal the election?"
  However, there is no basis for the suggestion that Trump opponents are inflating the coronavirus mortality rate to try to "steal the election." 
  
  Watch: 
  
 