At least 3,003 people have died in the US from coronavirus, according to CNN Health's tally.
  In total, there are at least  160,698  cases of coronavirus in the country.
  The total includes cases from all 50 states, the District of Columbia and other US territories, as well as all repatriated cases. Hawaii and Wyoming have not reported a death from coronavirus. 
  For the most up-to-date US numbers compiled by CNN, please check  this map  which automatically refreshes every 10 minutes. 
  
  
  The number of coronavirus cases in Mexico has now surpassed 1,000 -- and Monday was the deadliest day for the country since the outbreak began.   
  Mexico's deputy health minister, Hugo Lopez-Gatell Ramirez, announced that there are 1,094 confirmed cases nationwide, including 28 fatalities. That toll represents eight new reported deaths since Sunday.
  Third Mexican governor tests positive:  Pancho Dominguez, the governor of Querétaro state, announced on Twitter that his coronavirus test came back positive. His announcement follows similar ones from the governors of Tabasco and Hidalgo states.
  Health secretary tests positive:  Tabasco state Health Secretary Dr. Silvia G. Roldán Fernández has tested positive for coronavirus, Subsecretary Dr. Leopoldo Gastelum Fernandez said in a video news conference. 
  “You will ask why our health secretary isn’t here,” he said, after receiving a slip of paper during the news conference. Gastelum Fernandez then said that Roldán Fernández took a test for Covid-19 that came back positive, though she is asymptomatic. She is continuing to work remotely for the health agency.
  
  
  The White House told the US state of Illinois that it would receive 300,000 N95 masks -- but instead, the state got surgical masks, says Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker.
  This was the third federal shipment of PPE Illinois has received and it arrived Sunday. But the governor said Illinois had so far received only a “small fraction” of what the state had asked for.
  The state of Illinois currently has 5,057 confirmed coronavirus cases, including 73 deaths. 
  Pritzker also called on President Donald Trump to use the Defense Production Act to direct companies to increase PPE production.
  Read more about the Defense Production Act  here .  
  How many people die after being infected with the novel coronavirus? Fewer than previously calculated, according to a study released Monday, but still more than die from the flu. 
  The research, published in the medical journal The Lancet Infectious Diseases, estimated that about 0.66% of those infected with the virus will die.
  What the research shows:  That coronavirus death rate, which is lower than  earlier estimates , takes into account potentially milder cases that often go undiagnosed – but it’s still far higher than the 0.1% of people who are killed by the flu. 
  When unreported infections aren’t taken into account, the Lancet study found that the coronavirus death rate was 1.38%, which is more consistent with earlier reports.
  That’s because death rates typically only consider reported coronavirus cases, which tend to be more severe, and thus brought to the attention of health-care workers. Asymptomatic cases -- or mild cases -- may not always be counted.
  Death rate differs among age groups:  That death rate, though, went up in older adults, with approximately 7.8% of those over age 80 estimated to die after infection. And deaths were estimated to be exceedingly rare in children younger than nine, with a fatality rate of just 0.00161%.
  For age groups younger than 40, the death rate was never higher than 0.16%, according to the study. Out of 1,000 young adults infected, then, about one or two could die, with the youngest people facing the lowest risk.
  Experts stress that it’s difficult to estimate a virus’ death rate during an epidemic.
  Read the full story  here .  
  
  
  At least 256,008,318 Americans, or 78% of the US population, are under stay-at-home or shelter-in-place orders, according to a CNN count.
  The US Census Bureau estimates the total US population at 328,239,523
  This count also includes local city and county orders. The numbers were tallied using census data.
   
  
  
  There are  at least  160,008 cases of coronavirus in the US and 2,948 people have died from the virus, according to CNN Health's tally of US cases that are detected and tested. 
  The total includes cases from all 50 states, the District of Columbia and other US territories, as well as all repatriated cases. Hawaii and Wyoming are the only two states not to have reported a death from coronavirus. 
  Two people experiencing homelessness in Los Angeles are infected with coronavirus -- the first known cases among the homeless population in the county, according to Public Health Director Barbara Ferrer.
  Additionally, a person who works in an LA County homeless shelter has also contracted the virus.
  California Gov. Gavin Newsom previously announced a homeless person had tested positive in the state, according to the state’s Department of Public Health. It’s unclear where that person lives.
  Ferrer also announced seven additional deaths and 342 new cases in Los Angeles County overnight. There are 2,474 confirmed Covid-19 cases in Los Angeles County, Ferrer said.
  Nearly 60,000 people were  counted as homeless  in Los Angeles County in 2019 -- a 12% increase over the previous year.
 