Leadership During Crisis:  
  A Conversation with Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam and Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson 
  MR. COSTA: Good morning, and welcome to Washington Post Live. I'm Bob Costa, a national political reporter at The Post.
  This morning, we continue our Leadership During Crisis series with two governors who have been dealing with the coronavirus pandemic for days and weeks on end.
  We will begin with Virginia's Democratic Governor, Ralph Northam;
  And then, we will hear from Arkansas's Republican Governor, Asa Hutchinson.
  But first, Governor Northam, we welcome him to Washington Post Live. He's a medical doctor and he has recently announced plans to reopen Virginia's economy.
  Governor, welcome.
  GOVERNOR NORTHAM: Bob, good morning to you and all of your viewers. And thanks so much for doing this, and it's just so important that Americans and, certainly, in my case, Virginians, have access to updated and accurate information. So, I appreciate the opportunity to be with you today.
  MR. COSTA: Thank you, Governor.
  Many of The Washington Post readers, as you know, live in Virginia and they heard your Monday news conference where you announced that some parts of the state could reopen before parts of Northern Virginia.
  Why are you supporting this idea of a phased reopening of your state?
  GOVERNOR NORTHAM: Well, Bob, we've put a floor in place, following the CDC guidelines: looking at the criteria such as the number of new cases each day; the percent positive rates across Virginia; the hospital capacity; the number of ventilators; the amount of PPE; the ability to test and track individuals.
  And so, following those guidelines, Virginia is doing well. There are obviously some areas, to include Northern Virginia, which the numbers are not as good. While they're trending in the right direction, their percent positivity is down over the last few days. They don't feel that they're ready to go into phase one, which we plan to do on Friday.
  So, I've had a great relationship and I commend the leaders in Northern Virginia also working with Maryland's Governor, the Mayor of Washington, D.C., to really do the right thing. And it's all about safety and the wellbeing of Virginians. And so, I've had daily discussions with our leaders in Northern Virginia. I just released an Executive Order a few minutes ago that will allow Northern Virginia--five counties up there--to go into phase one in two weeks rather than on May the 15th.
  MR. COSTA: But how exactly, Governor, will this work? People in Virginia can still travel from town to town or county to county.
  GOVERNOR NORTHAM: Yes. And certainly, that's a concern. And that's not just the case for Virginia but it's also the case for Maryland and also Washington, D.C. And so, we've really tried to work closely with those leaders.
  And I reminded folks on Monday, Bob, that this virus is still out there. And while we're going to remove or lift the stay at home order, we're transitioning to what we call a "safer at home." That means if you don't need to be out, if you don't have something essential, especially if you're in a vulnerable population, that you're much safer at home.
  So, we encourage individuals in Northern Virginia where we know there are hotspots to--you know, to please use discretion before they go out and especially before they go to other parts of the state and the country.
  MR. COSTA: Norther Virginia is so vital to your state's economy. How long are you willing to let this exemption last, to allow these counties in Northern Virginia to keep their businesses closed?
  GOVERNOR NORTHAM: It's a great question, Bob, and my answer would be as long as it takes.
  This is about safety; it's about Virginians, certainly in our case, feeling comfortable going into places of business. And we've worked very closely with the businesses, restaurant owners across Virginia.
  And so, as soon as those numbers start trending down, as soon as the number of hospitalizations, the number of new cases in Northern Virginia are at a level where we're comfortable, then we'll continue to not go into phase one for those particular areas.
  MR. COSTA: When you speak of phase one, if you haven't read all the details and you're watching this, it's the Governor's plan to reopen in the coming weeks.
  You've outlined many different rules--I would call them rules or guidelines.
  GOVERNOR NORTHAM: Yes.
  MR. COSTA: But my question to you, as Governor, is how do you enforce it in terms of the capacity at restaurants and at churches? Who enforces it? Will it be police? Who does it?
  GOVERNOR NORTHAM: Well, we have, as you know, a stay at home order from our previous Executive Order, and we had given our local authorities, the police, the ability to enforce, and we will continue to do that.
  But you know, as I have encouraged Virginians and, for the most part, they've done a great job. It's up to us, really, as a society. This doesn't--this shouldn't be something that, you know, we rely on people to enforce. Virginians need to take the responsibility and continue the social or what we call "physical distancing." Washing hands, staying home unless it's absolutely essentially, these are things that we know work. Those are the things that have been able to flatten the curve that have really given us the opportunity to move into phase one. And I have encouraged Virginians to really be vigilant and continue to practice those guidelines.
  And if we do, you know, I think that Virginians will be safe.
  MR. COSTA: In phase one in your guidelines, you've talked about allowing people back on the beaches to exercise. But a lot of our readers are wondering, when will Virginia Beach and other beaches be open for all kinds of use this summer, if ever?
  GOVERNOR NORTHAM: Well, Bob, it's a great question and I'm from the Eastern Shore, as you may know. We have beaches on both sides of the Delmarva Peninsula. Obviously, Virginia Beach, Hampton, Norfolk have beautiful beaches. And they're certainly, you know, important for our economy. And we want people, with the warm weather, to be able to get back onto the beaches, but we need to do it safely, and so we're taking our time.
  We have a very comprehensive plan that we've worked with Virginia Beach, and we're going to use that in other areas of Virginia, but looking at cleansing, looking at social distancing, looking at being able to educate individuals of why this is important, and also how we enforce that. And so, as soon as we know that that's in place and that it's safe to move forward, then we'll allow people to go back on the beaches.
  But you know, another point I would make, Bob, we're living in a new day. I mean, the times of going out onto the beach and, you know, being in large gatherings, we just can't do that anymore. And as long as this virus is with us, again, we've got to be vigilant and know that it's out there. It's been so challenging for people, but I think they understand you can't see it. We know it's out there; we see people being hospitalized; we see people on the frontlines that are working every day. We see, unfortunately, the deaths every day. We had 41 additional deaths in Virginia today. So, it's out there and Virginians need to understand--and really, Americans need to understand that we're in a new day and we have really got to be careful.
  Because, as you may know, Bob, I'm a physician. I'm a child neurologist and I practiced medicine for over 30 years. I have never seen a pathogen, a virus, that acts like this. And as you know, it's called a novel virus. There are so many things that we don't understand about it. So, we have to realize that it's still out there until there's a vaccination, until this goes away by some other means. It's the real deal and we all need to take it seriously.
  MR. COSTA: But when you say "It's a new day and we all have to realize," you have seen the protests and the criticism from conservatives in your state who say you're moving too slow to reopen the economy. You've seen the tweets from President Trump, "Liberate Virginia."
  What's your message to your critics who say you're crippling the state's economy by moving too slow?
  GOVERNOR NORTHAM: Well, first of all, I have a message, and it's a consistent message. Unfortunately, we've been receiving mixed messages from Washington, and you just touched on one of them.
  On a Thursday, just a few weeks ago, Bob, the President of the United States--and I was in a meeting with him via videoconference, he reviewed the CDC guidelines, the 14 days of trending numbers going down before it would be safe to lift these restrictions. Two days later--two days later--he was talking about liberating Virginia. He was encouraging protests, and we've had several of them here in Virginia. And I would just say, from a messaging perspective, that is a significant mixed message.
  It's also a mixed message to say, back in February, that this virus was going to disappear like a miracle. Well guess what? It didn't disappear and now we've had over 80,000 deaths in Virginia [sic].
  It was also a mixed message to say that everybody can get a test, it's a beautiful test. That's what came from our President's mouth. Well, that's far from what is accurate. And so, I have stuck to a message; I have stuck to using data. As I said, I am a physician. I follow the data every day; I follow the CDC guidelines. And those are the guidelines that we're using to--and it's not like throwing a switch. This is a dimmer. We're just lifting some restrictions, moving forward, trying to open up some of our businesses, but doing it in a safe and responsible way. And I have the tools in place now with testing capabilities, with tracing and tracking. I've got adequate amounts of PPE that if we see flare-ups or hotspots, we can box them out.
  And then, obviously, if things get away from us, if the numbers are going in the wrong direction, we'll put the restrictions back in place. So, that's the way we'll move forward. That's been my message from the beginning and it's been a consistent message.
  MR. COSTA: What would entail having the restrictions be put back in place? What's the metric you're looking at, if that ever needs to happen?
  GOVERNOR NORTHAM: Well, again, you know, one of the main things, Bob, was our hospital capacity. And just about a month ago, believe it or not, we were worried that we were going to overburden our health care systems and we made plans for three alternative care sites in Virginia: one up in Northern Virginia, one in Richmond, and then one in Hampton Roads.
  And because we've been able to flatten the curve, we haven't had to open those. And so, hospital capacity is certainly important. Looking at the number of ventilators, right now, our ventilator capacity is at about 20-21 percent; it fluctuates day to day. So, we're in good shape, there.
  And again, having the PPE, having the ability to test, all of these things are important. But certainly, the numbers: I mean, if we continue to have increasing numbers of new cases, if our positivity rate stops trending down and goes in the other direction, if the deaths in Virginia--and every death, it just is one too many. If those things start happening then obviously, we'll gather, we'll talk to our team, leaders across Virginia, and make those decisions, as needed.
  MR. COSTA: What are you doing, Governor, to address the racial disparity in terms of cases and death?
  GOVERNOR NORTHAM: Bob, that is a great question, and this pandemic has really brought out the inequities that continue to exist not only in Virginia but in this country. And certainly, one of those is the inequity of access to health care.
  One of the things that you probably know that I'm proudest of was to expand Medicaid last year. Now, 400,000-plus Virginians have access to health care that didn't have it before. And so, to make sure that everybody in Virginia, doesn't matter the color of their skin or the country that they come from has access to health care; that's very important to me.
  And also realizing the inequities, we have a Health Equity Commission that I started here in Virginia. We have an Officer of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, the first state in the country to have that, and Dr. Janice Underwood. So, we're doing a lot of things to address equity here in Virginia and I couldn't be prouder of the progress that we're making.
  MR. COSTA: Governor, we only have about five minutes left, so let's consider this a lightning round of sorts. Will you release the names of nursing homes that have been--that have seen outbreaks in Virginia?
  GOVERNOR NORTHAM: Bob, I get the message. I need to be a little bit shorter on my responses. So, I--[audio distortion]--
  MR. COSTA: No, no. I know you're busy, as much as we can--
  GOVERNOR NORTHAM: I'll try to do that.
  In our code, our Code of Virginia, there are laws that prevent releasing names of nursing homes. I have encouraged the nursing homes to be as transparent as they can. The public needs to know that, especially during this pandemic.
  And we're also talking to legislators. The General Assembly will come back to Richmond in August when we'll re-forecast and deal with our budget, and I anticipate a piece of legislation being proposed and embedded that will make the release of information from our nursing homes more transparent. But to do that would require--
  MR. COSTA: Would you support that legislation? Would you fully personally support it?
  GOVERNOR NORTHAM: I will. Obviously, Bob, pieces of legislation make their way through the General Assembly, they get vetted. And so, sometimes, it doesn't end up like it started but that's part of the process. As we say, it's kind of like making sausage. But I certainly support the concept of as much transparency as we can have.
  MR. COSTA: Congress is debating phase four legislation. I've seen it reported by The Post that Virginia has lost three billion in terms of costs and revenue.
  Is that the number you need right now from the federal government, three billion? And if not, what's the number you're looking for?
  GOVERNOR NORTHAM: Well, there's a combination, Bob and we need resources. And so, I have a meeting each week with our congressional delegation. And we have great leaders in our Senators, Warner and Kaine, and congressmen and congresswomen. And they have been very good.
  So, we need resources, but we also need flexibility. And that is, how can states--and it's not unique to Virginia--but how can states best put those resources to good use?
  So, we have that message to our congressional leadership. And so, we are hopeful that there will be another relief package and that, if and when that happens, they will give governors and states more flexibility.
  MR. COSTA: But how much does Virginia need?
  GOVERNOR NORTHAM: Well, as much as we can get right now, Bob, but you were correct when you said that three billion is--and that's a rough estimate. We have what we call a "caboose budget" that ends on January--excuse me, June the 30th, and then we go into our new budget. So, a billion from this budget and then two billion for the upcoming budget.
  But one of the things, Bob, and I know we're short on time, Virginia was in a great position going into COVID-19. We were the best state in which to do business; our unemployment rate was at 2.6; had over $1.5 billion in our rainy-day fund. So, we're very fiscally responsible. And I encourage all Virginians that, you know, when we come out of COVID-19 and we get this health crisis behind us, we're going to be back in a strong position.
  MR. COSTA: Virginia struggled on testing early on. What do you need from the federal government to help you improve your testing capacity?
  GOVERNOR NORTHAM: Well, a short response is swabs. Believe it or not, that has been one of the limiting factors.
  But you know, back on March the 7th when we had our first case in Virginia, we were sending the few tests that we had to the CDC in Atlanta. And now, that system has evolved. A couple weeks ago, we were testing 2,000 a day. Yesterday, we tested 8,200, in that ballpark--actually, yeah, 8,200. So, our goal that I have set, and we're going to meet that goal, is to get to 10,000.
  But to your question, what do we need: We need supplies.
  MR. COSTA: Do you have a date this summer when you'll make a decision on whether schools come back in the fall or not?
  GOVERNOR NORTHAM: We will, Bob. And I talked to our teachers, our principals, our students. I've had several of these virtual classrooms with them. And obviously, we've got great colleges and universities.
  And it is my hope and my intent--I'm a glass-is-half-full person--that our children and our college students will be back in their schools this fall.
  But again, we're dealing with a novel virus, and whatever decision we make, it will be done with data, it will be done with safety, and it will be done with responsibility.
  MR. COSTA: And just a final question, here: Dr. Fauci is testifying before the Senate this morning. You mentioned President Trump's mixed messages. Do you believe Dr. Fauci and other health officials are being listened to by the President in a sufficient way, and are they providing the country with enough information?
  GOVERNOR NORTHAM: You know, I don't know what the communication is like, there. Obviously, I'm not privy to that every day, but I will say that I really respect Dr. Fauci. He talks about the science; he talks about data; and he's a straight shooter. And that's what we need right now.
  People out there not only in Virginia but in this country, they need the truth. And that's what I'm trying to do as a leader in Virginia and I know a lot of other governors are doing that, as well.
  But Bob, we have been fighting a biological war with no supplies because there was no direction coming from Washington. And it's not unique to Virginia, but the governors have stepped up, we've become leaders, and we're in charge of this pandemic and we've come into it and we're going to get our states out of it.
  MR. COSTA: Governor Northam, thank you. We appreciate your time.
  GOVERNOR NORTHAM: Thank you so much, Bob, for all you're doing.
  MR. COSTA: Thank you.
  And in a moment, we will be joined by Arkansas' Governor, Asa Hutchinson.
  [Video plays]
  MR. COSTA: Hello. Welcome back and welcome to Governor Asa Hutchinson of Arkansas. Is he with us?
  GOVERNOR HUTCHINSON: I'm with you. It's great to be with you.
  MR. COSTA: Oh, I'm glad to see you. We're trying our best here, Governor, with all this Skype. Thanks for being here at Washington Post Live.
  GOVERNOR HUTCHINSON: Well, it's great to join you today, look forward to the conversation.
  MR. COSTA: You've been a former congressman, a federal official at the DEA at Homeland Security, now Governor of Arkansas, and you've drawn a lot of notice in your decision to not issue a stay at home order. How is that going in Arkansas?
  GOVERNOR HUTCHINSON: It's going very well. I think we made the right decision. And every governor has to make a decision based upon the unique circumstances of their state.
  But yes, I had enormous pressure from the national media, the national dialogue, that everybody had to shelter in place. And I talked to our public health professionals, and I soon realized we would be adding to the unemployment roll hundreds of thousands of more people and we still wouldn't be making a significant difference in the number of cases and the spread.
  And so, we targeted our approach. We did close bars and restaurants to in-service dining. We, you know, closed some of the person-to-person businesses. We targeted that and we closed our schools but we didn’t close every establishment.
  But we did put guidelines in, and we really emphasized the social distancing. I set the example wearing masks. And so, the result is that now all the national pressure is "Open up." And so, we have also resisted the pressure of doing it all at once. We've had a phased-in approach to reopening, and the result is that I think that you can look at our statistics and we've done as well as anybody, if not better. We worry about it every day, but our number of hospitalizations which they projected to be in the thousands is less than 100 right now.
  And whenever you look at the number of cases, it's beat the projection. The number of deaths has beat the projection. And so, I think we have managed it well and in the right way for Arkansas. We're not taking it lightly and we'll continue to look at this very seriously and do what we need to do.
  MR. COSTA: So, that's your conclusion, Governor, that things are going well, but are your own health experts in Arkansas urging you at all privately to reconsider your decision?
  GOVERNOR HUTCHINSON: No, no. Short answer is no. Dr. Smith is an infectious disease expert. He's highly respected nationally. He's my public health advisor, my Secretary of Health. And of course, he has a team.
  And I listen to them, we look at the data, and he's fully supported the direction we're going. We're not divided on this point at all.
  MR. COSTA: When you say the national media and the national dialogue were pressuring you, what were the pressures inside of Arkansas? It's a conservative state, a state that doesn't love to have regulation. Was that a factor, as well?
  GOVERNOR HUTCHINSON: Well, I mean, there's pressure both ways. I mean, there were those that said we've got to shelter in place. And so, there was a lot of pressure internally in Arkansas even in that regard. Part of it is because they listened to the national dialogue and they see what's happening in New York and it's a deep, deep concern.
  So, you get that pressure. And yes, you get the--you know, the pressure now is more open up, open up more quickly. We, during both of those occasions, did not listen to simply the public pressure but we tried to follow the data from Arkansas and our public health experts and make good judgments.
  I mean, now, we didn't open everything up on May 4th. We phased it in. May 11th, we opened up some things; May 18th, we're going to open up a little bit more. And we're looking at summer camps down the road, but we're doing it very carefully. And as we do it, piece by piece, we're able to look at the data, ask whether there's been a jump, there's been a spike, what's the reason for it. And that's the approach that we've taken.
  And you know, the public pressure--I mean, people do listen to what's happening nationally and they draw conclusions from it. And so, it's been a very transparent--that's been the most important thing that I've done is that every day I've met with the public, I've met with the media, I've answered questions. It's--my 1:30 daily update is broadcast across the state and people listen to it, they attune to it, and they respond to it very well.
  But, and sometimes we might not have something perfectly and they live through this with us, but that transparency has helped give us credibility.
  MR. COSTA: Do you have any concerns about social distancing in Arkansas? There have been anecdotal reports that some people in your state are simply not following the guidelines or the recommendations.
  GOVERNOR HUTCHINSON: Well, it is a concern. I think we're doing as well or better than some other states, actually. But sure, I mean, people, when they have beautiful weather in a place like Arkansas--we've got our state parks, our national parks, and we've got beautiful trails and rivers. People like to get outside and sometimes they lose focus on the social distancing.
  And then, you know, when people have been cooped up, they want to get out, they want to shop. And most of our employers have set a very good example where they do the social distancing, the wearing of masks by their staff. But they also construct their store in a way that allows for social distancing.
  But this last weekend, yes, I saw some examples of stores in our state and elsewhere across the country where they did not follow the guidelines, they did not socially distance as they should have. And you know, I raised the profile on that, I raised the question, I make a few calls on it. So, we all have to do better, there, because as you open up businesses, what's going to keep us from not regressing or having a resurgence is our adherence to the social distancing guidelines. That's our hope for the future until we get the vaccine.
  MR. COSTA: Arkansas is so critical for the nation's supply chain for meat. Where are your challenges right now on that front?
  GOVERNOR HUTCHINSON: Well, first of all, we're meeting those challenges. We have over 60 meat processing plants in Arkansas, from poultry to beef to catfish. And so, those processing plants are important for our national and international food supply chain. But of those 60 processing plants in Arkansas, none of them have been shut down because of COVID-19.
  And that's a tribute to the hard work they're doing in screening employees, in temperature checks, in doing the social distancing within the plant itself. And then, if you have a positive case, tracing it quickly and rooting it out or isolating it so it doesn't extend from that.
  So, we've been fortunate. I think it's a tribute to the companies that understand what's at stake for their own business but also for the nation's supply chain. So, we've been blessed in that area. Our Department of Health has worked closely with them, but we have not had any outbreak in terms of our processing facilities.
  MR. COSTA: What has China's situation in their dealing with the pandemic meant for Arkansas and its economy? So much meat, obviously, from Arkansas goes abroad, as well.
  GOVERNOR HUTCHINSON: Well, it's--you know, we're--we produce more than we can consume. And so, those markets globally is very important to us, from rice to soybeans to beef to poultry. And so, because of the strained trading relationship, but also because of the coronavirus there in China, and the restrictions, it has slowed down those international exports.
  And that has hurt our--you know, we have cattle that's in the field that we can't sell at the right price; the prices are down. But you know, that's going to come back and it's going to come back very quickly. The supply chain is going to even out. So, it has been a hit to our farmers, our ag community, but they're used to challenges and they're working their way through it.
  MR. COSTA: What do you need right now from the federal government, from Congress?
  GOVERNOR HUTCHINSON: Well, first of all, in terms of Congress, they--what they've done in terms of supporting financially our small businesspeople, the unemployed, the extra payment, really working to get cash back in the economy very quickly, that has helped a great deal. And so, I applaud Congress for their action on stimulating the economy and getting help financially to those families that need it.
  In terms of the supply chain, you know, our need has always been in terms of testing, but I heard a little bit of Governor Northam and I'm like him that we're making great progress, there.
  At first, we couldn’t get the supplies, the swabs. We couldn't get the antigens that we needed for the testing equipment that we had. But the federal government said, "When you need it, you'll get it." And they saw us--that we're not a hotspot, and so they shifted a lot to the other states.
  But in recent days, the supply chain has caught up. And so, we've been pledged 90,000 test kits this month. We're starting to receive those, which will be more than sufficient to meet the goal of 2 percent of our population being tested, and that's the goal I set this month is 60,000 to be tested. We're marching toward that goal, and that's reliant upon that supply chain that comes from the commercial sector but is also guided by CDC.
  And thus far, that's working. And so, you asked me what we need, it is that consistent supply chain--consistent supply chain because, as you go into the fall, we've got to have that testing capability. We've got to have that consistent supply chain support in order to avoid a resurgence.
  MR. COSTA: You've had an outbreak at a state prison. How is that developing and do you see yourself maybe encouraging more prisoners to be released in the coming days and weeks?
  GOVERNOR HUTCHINSON: Well, we did have an outbreak in Cummins Maximum Security Facility. And so, these are not inmates that you can just say, "Well, you ought to go home," and they have to be incarcerated.
  And so, but we did--we really went the extra mile. We tested over 1,000 inmates. So, and you know, many of them were negative and most of them were not symptomatic, but we wanted to make sure that we knew who was negative, who was positive and we separated those, and we did make sure we had room in the facilities for the isolation, for the separation that was necessary.
  The concern is also about the staff because they go back in the community. We tested the staff, we dealt with that issue. And so, I think in that prison system they're starting to recover, but we're on the guard at every moment because we have multiple prison facilities in Arkansas and we could have an outbreak at any time.
  Obviously, we're not allowing outside visitors. The staff continues to go in. And so, that testing, make--monitoring is very important. And so far, we haven't had any further outbreak.
  We've also had an outbreak in the federal prison here in Arkansas in Ford City which we don't have control over but we still get to account for those cases. And so, both the state prison and the federal prison outbreak has added to our caseload, but they're being managed and we haven't seen that impact--the community spread.
  MR. COSTA: So, clearly, prisons are an area of concern. What's your strategy moving ahead with prisons, if they're possible outbreak hotspots in Arkansas?
  GOVERNOR HUTCHINSON: Well, the first thing that we did was to release those that were not sex offenders, that were not violent, inmates that were within six months of their release date. If they had a good parole plan, we've started to work through the release of some of those. I think over 300 have been released.
  And what that does for us is it frees up some of our prison space so that we can, if there's an outbreak in an area, it's easier to isolate, to separate.
  And so, we've done that. And then, secondly, our Department of Health has worked very, very carefully with our Department of Corrections to make sure we've got the right protocols health-wise in those other facilities.
  MR. COSTA: What are you seeing in struggling communities, particularly among African-Americans, in Arkansas? What's the data tell you about how this virus, this pandemic is affecting them?
  GOVERNOR HUTCHINSON: It is a higher proportion than what is reflected in the population. So, they are disproportionately impacted by COVID-19. There are going to have to be a lot of studies done as to why that is the case.
  Obviously, some of the underlying adverse health conditions that exist in the population does impact the outcomes, as well.
  But we'll have--but one of the things I hope that we can do and we plan to do is to use some of the CARES Act funding for specific research and addressing some of the minority health needs, particularly with COVID-19.
  One of the things that we're doing this month in testing is that we're using our Minority Health Commission and their mobile lab. We're equipping it for testing capacity to go into minority communities to make sure that we can do the testing necessary there. That will help give us good information for planning on the future, as well.
  MR. COSTA: What's your plan for this fall for schools, for high school football in Arkansas?
  GOVERNOR HUTCHINSON: Let's open up. Let's have school. That's the short answer, but our university--most of them have already announced that they intend to have classes as normal next year. We're working on a higher education testing protocol so that we can have quick response testing available in our college environment.
  In terms of our K-12, we're planning on school as normal next year, understanding that we're going to have potential of a resurgence. We won't have a vaccine, yet, but we've got to be able to plan for those type of normal-life activities, with the understanding that we're going to have to respond quickly if we have potential for a resurgence or some positive cases.
  And so, it could be that we'll start next year K-12. There might be a positive case in school; you've closed down for a week to make sure everybody is isolated, cared for, it's clean, and then you restart. So, there'll be some of that, potentially, next year, but we intend to proceed.
  I do have--right now, we have not made announcements on team sports and decisions on team sports for midsummer and on into the fall. We hope to be able to do that a little bit later this month.
  MR. COSTA: Governor, Dr. Anthony Fauci is testifying right now before the Senate. I know you've spoken to him at least once. What is your relationship with the White House and the taskforce as you plan for your state and its reopening?
  GOVERNOR HUTCHINSON: A close working relationship with the taskforce. Dr. Fauci, we've talked to him on the phone with Dr. Smith, my public health advisor. He's actually looked at what we're doing in the state and has applauded us as doing a good job.
  Dr. Birx, we've talked to, as well. So, they have been very important in terms of information flow, in terms of help with testing, in terms of the infrastructure that we'll need in the future.
  You know, we had a great worry about, you know, having the ventilators that we needed. And we're going out on the open market to buy those ventilators. Well, then we realized we actually had sufficient ventilators here but the federal government said, "If you need ventilators, we'll get you ventilators." And so, it was just a good partnership with them.
  In terms of the future, you know, we wish--we need to get the vaccine. We were dependent upon them to accelerate that. Their use of the Defense Production Act has been very, very important, and that has enhanced the testing availability that we have, as well as given us confidence that, if we need ventilators, we'll have ventilators, even though I think that has pretty much passed us by at this point and that we're in good shape.
  MR. COSTA: Just to finish up with the initial question and to think about the White House and the taskforce, the 15 days to stop the spread, many states having stay at home orders, do you believe that many governors did too much, they moved too fast to institute stay at home orders?
  GOVERNOR HUTCHINSON: You know, one, I wouldn't second-guess any other governor. I mean, look at New York, look at California. You've got density-of-population issues. So, you can't second-guess any governor, even though I know that, after it's all over with, we're going to have a 9/11-type commission that will second-guess every decision that we've made as governors, and at the White House.
  And I look forward to that, actually, because that kind of review is very important for us. But all I can say is I'm confident that we made the right decision and it's going to allow us to restart our economy and reengage that more quickly. It's going to reduce those that have been unemployed.
  I can cite example after example of a company that's come to me and said, "Thanks for not shutting us down." Our people are still working and it wouldn't have done any good for us. So, I am very pleased with what we've done.
  Now, you know, it's not over with, yet, and we're fighting every day the potential for a resurgence, but that's one thing we've got to do is I had a meeting today and our contract--contact tracing, which we've got a good protocol in place, but I saw today we've got to elevate that even more as we go into the fall. That's the kind of effort that we'll be doing here in Arkansas.
  MR. COSTA: Just one quick final follow-up: You say it's not over yet and there could be a resurgence. Is a stay at home order still on the table for Arkansas in the future?
  GOVERNOR HUTCHINSON: Well, everything would be on the table in the event that we had a resurgence. We would look at that, but I think, based upon experience and based upon our infrastructure that we have now, including contact tracing and testing, that that wouldn't be necessary and that would not be the right step to go. It would really have to be a dire circumstance in order to go to a shelter in place in Arkansas.
  I think we've handled any--and I told the Arkansas people that, you know, there's going to be an uptick. There will be some type of a bounce up in some of the statistics, we're going to deal with that, but you have to understand it could be in a prison, it could be in a processing facility or an essential services, or it could be in a school. We will go in, we will carefully deal with that, avoid the spread, and that's why we can both keep our economy alive as well as fight the virus.
  MR. COSTA: Governor Hutchinson, thank you very much for joining us at Washington Post Live this morning.
  GOVERNOR HUTCHINSON: Enjoyed the conversation, look forward another time.
  MR. COSTA: Thank you.
  And thank you all for joining us this morning. we have a great lineup for the rest of the week at Washington Post Live.
  On Wednesday, Rhode Island's Governor, Gina Raimondo; and Mozilla CEO, Mitchell Baker, they'll talk about technology, public health, contact tracing. That'll be with my colleague, Frances Sellers--Frances Stead Sellers--great reporter.
  And on Thursday, the CEO of FedEx, Fred Smith, the founder of FedEx, he will join Washington Post Live, to talk about the path forward for his businesses and other businesses nationwide, and that'll be with the editorial page's writer and Editor, Michael Duffy. You know him well; he's done other events for Washington Post Live.
  Just go to  WashingtonPostLive.com  for a reminder. You can sign up for the livestream as we all work from home and do our best in these tough times.
  For now, stay safe. I'm Bob Costa, and all the best.
  [End recorded session]
 