WASHINGTON — The Trump administration, facing fierce criticism over a failure to test broadly for the coronavirus, said on Friday that it would set up drive-through testing, start a website to help Americans find a test, and set up new private partnerships to speed tests to the market.
  The federal government also approved a commercial test that will allow labs around the country to begin processing as many as 4,000 samples a day, and introduced an emergency hotline for laboratories. The Department of Health and Human Services said new partnerships would develop tests that can detect the virus in an hour.
  The moves signaled that the federal government was rushing to catch up with overwhelming demand for more testing capacity, as the number of confirmed coronavirus cases climbed and hospitals began to be stretched thin by surges in patients. As of Friday afternoon, coronavirus infections confirmed by lab tests were approaching 2,000, with at least 41 deaths, according to  a New York Times database . The global death toll neared 5,100.
  The federal government, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Food and Drug Administration, has been criticized for a flawed rollout of coronavirus tests, which were delayed after manufacturing problems at the C.D.C. and after lab directors and public health officials said the F.D.A. moved too slowly to allow outside companies and academic labs to develop their own tests.
  Other countries, such as South Korea, quickly ramped up their testing, screening thousands of people at drive-through sites.
  On Friday, the Trump administration unveiled a similar plan as the nation’s largest pharmacy chains, including CVS and Walgreens, agreed to move forward with drive-through testing. Pharmacy executives said details were still being completed, but testing would be done in dedicated spaces outside a select number of pharmacies by nonpharmacy personnel.
  The Trump administration also introduced tools aimed at helping patients and labs recognize symptoms and troubleshoot testing.
  At a White House news conference Friday afternoon where President Trump declared a national emergency, Dr. Deborah L. Birx, the administration’s coronavirus response coordinator, said that a website developed with Google would help Americans have access to the drive-through clinics. A questionnaire on the website will screen for symptoms and guide people to a clinic if needed. Results would then be available within 24 to 36 hours, Dr. Birx said, displaying a large flow chart outlining the process.
  “The goal is for individuals to be able to drive up and be swabbed without having to leave your car,” Mr. Trump said, claiming that 1,700 engineers at Google were helping with the website.
  But it was unclear how broadly the website would be available. After the president’s speech, Google  posted a statement on Twitter  saying that Verily, another unit of Alphabet, was “in the very early stages” of developing a website for use in the Bay Area, “with the hope of expanding more broadly over time.”
  Carolyn Wang, a representative for Verily, said it hoped to introduce a website to help “triage” people for virus screening. She said the aim was for the site to be available Monday “at the latest” but that it would be limited to screening individuals only for appointments at testing sites in the Bay Area. If the pilot goes well, Verily aims to deploy the project nationwide, but there is no timetable for a national rollout.
  Asked to confirm Mr. Trump’s statement of 1,700 Google engineers assigned to the project, Ms. Wang declined to comment. She said, however, that the president may have been discussing the number of Google staff members who had expressed an interest in volunteering for the project of creating a triage site that would feature a series of questions for people with symptoms of the virus. She said there were no other details to share about the site at this time.
  The president added that help from private companies would result in five million more tests available by the end of the month.
  “I doubt we’ll need anywhere near that,” he said.
  Moments earlier, Mr. Trump appeared to recognize how dire the need was for testing, saying that people should only get tested with “certain symptoms.” Last week, he promised that “anybody that wants a test can get a test,” a claim that top federal health officials  have had to walk back .
  “We don’t want people to take a test if we feel that they shouldn’t be doing it,” Mr. Trump said.
  The five million number could fall well short of what is actually needed. C.D.C. officials and epidemiologists  conferred last month  about what might happen if the coronavirus gained a foothold in the United States. Independent projections based on the C.D.C. scenarios suggest that 160 million to 214 million people could be infected without action to stop transmission. The outbreak could last months or even more than a year, experts said.
  The F.D.A. turned to Roche, a Swiss health care giant, to speed the testing effort, giving the global drug manufacturer emergency permission to sell to labs the first commercially approved test for the coronavirus in the United States.
  The emergency approval of the Roche test could significantly expand the nation’s capacity for testing. It means that labs that already have the company’s high-capacity testing equipment — which are available in more than 110 labs in the United States, as well as around the world — will quickly be able to test for the virus. Roche said its commercial test will provide results in three and a half hours. One of its systems, the Cobas 8800 System, will be able to test 4,128 samples in 24 hours. Another, the Cobas 6800 System, can run 1,440 tests in 24 hours.
  A Roche spokesman said some labs could begin testing as early as Saturday, with more getting started next week.
  Dr. Birx said that the new capacity of the Roche test would help big lab companies like LabCorp and Quest Diagnostics process the tests that will be used in the drive-through sites. The Roche test, which is automated, “cuts out a lot of the manual pieces that were happening that were delaying the test results,” she said.
  Dr. Bala N. Hota, an associate chief medical officer at Rush University in Chicago who is overseeing the hospital system’s response to coronavirus, praised the moves.
  He said the country’s capacity to test is now so limited that only patients who meet narrow criteria can be tested. But as infections spread through communities, broader testing is needed.
  “To have that happen, you need the volume, and you need the scale at the lab level,” he said.
  Dr. Alexander L. Greninger, an assistant professor at the University of Washington Medical Center in Seattle, the center of the nation’s outbreak, said his lab had already been talking to Roche about expanding its capacity and was obtaining the equipment needed to begin using the commercial test. The Washington lab is testing about 1,500 patients a day, and the Roche approval will significantly expand that.
  In an interview, Dr. Thomas Schinecker, the chief executive of Roche Diagnostics, said developing such a test normally takes years. Several other testing companies, including Hologic and Cepheid, have also said they were developing commercial tests for the virus.
  With the approval, he said, “we can really do a lot more testing in a much shorter period of time.”
  The company has been installing new equipment around the country in anticipation of the F.D.A. approval, and Dr. Schinecker said that all of the major American testing companies already had the Roche testing systems.
  The F.D.A. said a 24-hour emergency hotline was now available to help public and private labs process and validate tests, staffed by F.D.A. employees who field calls about potential problems with getting controls for tests or with swabs taken from a patient, among other subjects. In the first day that the hotline has been up, the F.D.A. has received dozens of calls, an F.D.A. spokeswoman said.
  Beyond Roche, the Department of Health and Human Services also announced it would award over a million dollars to two other companies, DiaSorin Molecular and Qiagen, to speed up the development of one-hour tests. The tests are a potentially significant overhaul of the current federal diagnostic model, which requires swabs from patients be sent to laboratories for testing. That takes hours at a minimum.
  Doctors have been clamoring for “point-of-care” coronavirus tests allowing results to be produced where patients are received, similar to how people are tested for the flu or strep throat.
  “We are working with the private sector at an urgent pace to make these tests available on as many diagnostic platforms as we can in the coming weeks,” Rick A. Bright, the director of the biomedical research unit at the Department of Health and Human Services, said in a statement.
  The department also made drastic changes to the team overseeing the distribution of tests to public and private labs, installing Adm. Brett P. Giroir, the agency’s assistant secretary and a close ally of the secretary Alex M. Azar II’s, to oversee the efforts.
  Dr. Stephen M. Hahn of the F.D.A. and Dr. Robert R. Redfield, the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, now must report to Admiral Giroir, the department said.
  The move was another indication of tension among top health officials as the Trump administration has struggled to catch up to the demand nationally at public health labs. Mr. Azar has privately expressed frustration to Dr. Redfield over the C.D.C.’s slow and faulty rollout of tests in February, which have caused panic among doctors and patients hamstrung by the federal government’s restrictions on who can be tested, and when. State health labs with dwindling testing resources have said they do not have the capacity to conduct tests that have been requested.
  A top federal health official said on Thursday that the government’s testing methods so far were “failing.”
  “The system does not, is not really geared to what we need right now, to what you are asking for,” Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, told lawmakers at a House hearing on Capitol Hill.
  Dr. Fauci appeared to pin some of the blame on the way that C.D.C. has distributed tests to public health labs, which must receive a request from a physician on behalf of a patient.
  “The idea of anybody getting it easily the way people in other countries are doing it, we are not set up for that,” Dr. Fauci said. “Do I think we should be? Yes. But we are not.”
 