Welcome to our weekly analysis of the state of the 2020 campaign. 
  If President Trump and his allies wanted to cast Joe Biden as an error-prone politician of yesteryear, this week they got some help.
  Mr. Biden’s interview with a slew of Black and Latino journalists produced two clippable comments for Republicans: At one point, Mr. Biden got testy with a reporter who asked him about taking a mental aptitude test, suggesting the reporter should be tested for cocaine and asking,  “Are you a junkie?”  At another stage of the interview, Mr. Biden contrasted Black and Latino communities by saying the latter had more diversity.
  But both comments, and Mr. Biden’s eventual attempt to walk back his remarks about Black diversity, were overshadowed by Mr. Trump’s own statements, a consequence of the president’s lack of discipline in executing his own campaign strategy. Mr. Trump’s charge that Mr. Biden, a practicing Catholic, was “against God” drew ire from across the political spectrum and supplanted Mr. Biden’s comments in the news cycle. 
  It was a microcosm of Mr. Trump’s current political struggle: He succeeded in 2016 as advisers “let Trump be Trump.” Now, he can’t seem to stand down, even when it would be helpful to let Biden be Biden. 
  Between his regular appearances in the White House briefing room, his overactive Twitter feed and his endless interviews with anchors on Fox News, President Trump can often feel like a leader who is unavoidable for comment. But Mr. Trump’s  interview last week with Jonathan Swan , a reporter for Axios, still managed to show the president in a different light.
  “It is what it is,” Mr. Trump told Mr. Swan when pressed about how he could claim the pandemic was under control with the United States averaging more than a thousand deaths per day.
  The callous statement from a president who has been  unable to demonstrate empathy in public  throughout the coronavirus pandemic was quickly  promoted by Mr. Biden , who has been running a campaign based in large part on the simple notion that the country needs an empathetic leader at this time.
  The strange part: Mr. Trump and his aides liked the interview, too. “I thought it was a good interview,” Mr. Trump said afterward. Many of his aides deemed  the hoopla over Mr. Trump’s comments  overrated, but did not see the interview as a mistake.
  The realness of Kanye West’s presidential campaign depends on whom you ask. The cultural icon and rap artist has filed forms declaring his candidacy in several states. This week, reports exposed an interesting, if not surprising, twist:  Republican operatives in swing states were helping Mr. West’s efforts , gathering signatures in places like Wisconsin and Colorado to give the self-proclaimed Yeezus more legitimacy. 
  Why are some Republicans helping his campaign? According to  a political reporter in Wisconsin , the state G.O.P. was hoping Mr. West could play the role of spoiler in November, siphoning votes from Mr. Biden. That is a big bet, riddled with assumptions and lacking supporting evidence. Here is what we know:
  This much is clear: The Trump campaign and the Biden campaign have agreed to three debates, scheduled for late September and October. This week, however, the Trump campaign requested a fourth presidential debate to be held earlier in September. The idea was floated by Mr. Trump’s confidante and personal lawyer, the former New York City mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.
  The gambit was shot down by the nonprofit commission that governs presidential debates, but it’s another sign Republicans are desperate to shake up the race. Mr. Trump’s supporters have crowed for months that in a one-on-one setting, the president would expose Mr. Biden as feckless and out of touch. They have tried to paint Mr. Biden as scared to debate Mr. Trump.
  The Democratic presidential primary should be instructive for this approach. Many of Mr. Biden’s primary opponents also assumed he would flail on the debate stage, but in key moments he rose to the occasion. And the predictions that Mr. Biden would be a poor debater lowered the bar enough that he could clear it. Be careful what you wish for.
 