With new coronavirus cases confirmed Tuesday, the United States now has more than 1,000 infected people.
  Turbulent trading , and anxieties over the coronavirus failed to subside with an increase in U.S. deaths and New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo ratcheting up protective measures in his state.
  Cuomo deployed National Guard troops to a health department command post in New Rochelle, a suburb of New York City where health officials have reported at least 108 cases of COVID-19 in the area. While there have been no reported deaths in New York, neighboring New Jersey announced its first one: a man in his 60s in Bergen County.
  The markets remained volatile a day after the Dow Jones shed 2,000 points — Wall Street's worst day since the financial crash of 2008. The Dow rallied before giving up most of its gain Tuesday afternoon.
  The coronavirus outbreak has  , which extended the containment measures already in place in northern regions to the entire country, which has confirmed more than 10,140 cases. The death toll in the country stands at more than 630 people.
  
  
  
  David K. Li
  Waffle House closed one of its Georgia locations after an  , the company announced. 
  The popular chain's location at 1849 Marietta Hwy in Canton, about 45 miles north of Atlanta, is temporarily closed as the restaurant is sanitized. The employee's most recent work day had been March 1, company officials said.
  Waffle House proudly advertises that " ," and closures for the company are rare. 
  That worker has been released from the hospital under quarantine.
  Alex Seitz-Wald
  Bernie Sanders and Joe Biden both canceled   rallies planned for Tuesday night in Ohio due to concerns about the  , a first on the 2020 presidential campaign trail as concerns about the outbreak mount.
  "Out of concern for public health and safety, we are canceling tonight’s rally in Cleveland," Sanders' campaign communications director Mike Casca said in a statement. "We are heeding the public warnings from Ohio state officials, who have communicated concern about holding large, indoor events during the coronavirus outbreak.
  "In  accordance with guidance from public officials and out of an abundance of caution, our rally in Cleveland, Ohio, tonight is cancelled," Kate Bedingfield, deputy manager for the Biden campaign, said in a statement. 
  
  Doha Madani
  Gov. Charlie Baker issued a state of emergency Tuesday as the Massachusetts Department of Public Health reported a jump in confirmed coronavirus cases. 
  The number of confirmed cases went up by 51 presumptive positives in a day, bringing the state's total cases to 92. Officials said Tuesday that they were beginning to see evidence of community spread of the virus, rather than travel related cases. 
  : Public Health Commissioner: Starting to see   community spread in  .  Commissioner: State has received an additional 2,000 kits w/ more coming.      
  Phil McCausland
  Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar appeared to minimize the spread of the coronavirus on Tuesday, insisting that it was not possible for the U.S. to limit the spread of the disease. 
  "The United States is the hub of the global economy," he said. "It was never going to be possible to hermetically seal us off from this outbreak — and we have said that from the very first communications that we've had to the American people about this."
  President Donald Trump, however, has repeatedly diminished the possibility of the spread. On Monday he went so far as to share his assessment of the spread of the disease,  , which critics say ignores the upward trend of coronavirus cases and downplays its deadliness. 
  Azar said 1.1 million tests had been shipped out this past week, another 1 million are currently available and 4 million more will be available by the end of the week through private partnerships..
  Lucy Bayly
  Wall Street rebounded by the closing bell on Tuesday, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average up almost 5 percent, or 1,164 points, on hopes that President Donald Trump would introduce an economic stimulus package to insulate the economy as the coronavirus epidemic spreads.
  Investors wavered throughout the day, parsing headlines and reports that focused on whether the emergency measures could be introduced quickly enough. The Dow swung through more than a thousand points, surging by 945 points before dipping into the red.
  “I think fiscal measures such as a payroll tax reduction are likely to be more impactful than the tools the Federal Reserve has, particularly cutting interest rates,” said Greg McBride, chief financial analyst at Bankrate.com. “Putting more money into the hands of consumers or businesses actually drives the economy. It’s not a panacea, but it is likely to be more effective than monetary policy.”
  Dareh Gregorian
  Florida Rep. Matt Gaetz, who found out while   on Monday that he'd been exposed to somebody with the coronavirus, said Tuesday he's tested negative for the virus. 
  Gaetz had just ridden in President Donald Trump's limo in Florida and was aboard the president's plane en route back to Washington when he got a phone call from his chief of staff telling him a person he spent time with at Conservative Political Action Conference had been hospitalized with the coronavirus. 
  "I've just been informed that my COVID-19 lab result was negative. In an abundance of caution, I will remain under self-quarantine at the advice of medical professionals through Thursday at 2pm," Gaetz tweeted. Thursday would mark 14 days since his interaction with the person at CPAC.
  "I continue to feel fine and show no symptoms," added Gaetz, who wore a   on the House floor during the vote on the coronavirus emergency spending bill last week. 
  Two other people who've spent time with Trump in the past week are also self-quarantining after learning they'd interacted with the same person, Reps.   of Georgia and  , Trump's new chief of staff. 
  Asked if he would be tested for coronavirus, Trump told reporters on Tuesday that he has spoken to the White House doctor, and that “he said he sees no reason to do it.” Trump said. “There’s no symptoms, no anything.”
   
  Elizabeth Chuck
  New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo announced Tuesday he is implementing a "containment area" around a one-mile radius in the city of New Rochelle, where there is a growing cluster of coronavirus cases.
  The plan involves closing schools and other large gathering facilities, such as houses of worship, within the zone for two weeks starting Thursday, he said. Businesses such as grocery stores and pharmacies will remain open.
  
  Erika Edwards
  At the Life Care Center, a nursing home in Kirkland, Washington, 18 residents have died from the coronavirus, and another 31 residents had tested positive. At Issaquah Nursing & Rehabilitation Center, also in Washington, one resident has died from the virus, and two others are infected.
  The spread of the coronavirus in nursing homes and assisted living facilities highlights the particular threat these communities face from the illness.
  
  Phil McCausland
  Gov. Jared Polis declared a state of emergency in Colorado on Tuesday in response to the growing number of coronavirus cases in the state. 
  Three new Colorado cases of the disease were confirmed, the Democratic governor said, which raises the total number of people with the illness there to 15. 
  “Our top priority is protecting public health and our vulnerable populations, which is why we are taking swift bold action," Polis said in a statement. "Our administration's response will be guided by the science and lessons learned from the countries and states that this virus arrived in first.” 
  Mike Hixenbaugh
  Twice a day, Bonnie Polin, 78, drives a few miles to visit her husband at his nursing home in Portland, Oregon. She sits with him while he eats breakfast and tells him stories that she knows he probably won’t remember.
  “I fell in love with him because he was so damned smart, and now he’s in the end stages of Parkinson’s disease,” Polin said of her husband, Gerald, 83, a retired psychiatrist. “But he’s still as handsome as ever.”
  Polin paused early one morning last week when she arrived for a visit and noticed a new sign posted at the entrance. In response to the  , officials at the Avamere Crestview of Portland, an adult care facility, like untold numbers of other nursing homes across the country in recent days, had decided to ban visitors.
  , and watch NBC's "Nightly News with Lester Holt" tonight at 6:30 p.m. ET/5:30 p.m. CT.
  Erika Edwards
  President Trump told reporters today that 8,000 people had died of the flu this season, comparing that number to 26 deaths from coronavirus.
  Trump's estimate is far too low. The   says the flu has killed at least 20,000 Americans this season.
  Trump also said there have been "hundreds of thousands" of flu cases this season. CDC estimates the true flu case count is 34 million.
  The coronavirus death toll in the U.S. rose to 28 on Tuesday.
 