Monica Alba
  WASHINGTON — After teasing it for seven months, President Donald Trump’s  re-election campaign  finally launched a new phone application to rally supporters on Thursday that has been re-imagined for the  virtual  political age.
  The digital tool was originally pitched as a key way to organize before the  coronavirus pandemic  brought a traditional presidential race to a halt. Now, it allows volunteers to work remotely and “earn points” for signed memorabilia and special treatment at future events when they return.
  Campaign manager Brad Parscale, the architect behind the mobile app,  suggested  that the new online portal will allow Trump supporters to “get the facts straight” from the president and called it “groundbreaking" contrary to "other lame political apps you’ve seen.”
  The “Trump 2020” app also pushes users to check out the online broadcasts the campaign is holding nightly after each White House coronavirus task force briefing. The short, 30-minute virtual shows have attracted millions of views, per senior officials.
  Once a supporter logs in, a screen reads: “As a reward for helping us fight against socialist Democrats you can earn items like Expedited Entry and special event access, even a picture with President Trump!”
  Under “rewards,” it costs 100,000 points to get a picture with the president and 28,000 points for “expedited entry to skip the line” at a Trump campaign gathering. Netting 5,000 points will earn fans a $25 store discount. Supporters can get 100 points for sharing the app and they can add to their total by sharing stories to Twitter and Facebook.
  It’s unclear exactly when the Trump campaign will return to the trail this year with large events but  discussions  are underway for rallies to begin again later this summer and fall ahead of November’s election.
  In the “events” section of the app, all gatherings are currently listed as phone calls or livestreams.
  Throughout the health crisis, the re-elect effort has touted its ability to convert a conventional campaign into a virtual one. This app, the campaign says, will help give supporters another opportunity to get involved and help reach new voters who support the president’s agenda.
  The app includes a “news” section that features the latest campaign statements, as well as curated attacks on former vice president and apparent Democratic nominee Joe Biden. There are also dozens of videos from the campaign’s rapid response team embedded throughout. 
 