
  
  President Trump lashed out at criticism of his handling of the coronavirus crisis during a  grievance-fueled appearance  from the White House.
  The appearance only affirmed the impression that some of Trump's chief concerns amid the global public health disaster are how his performance is viewed in the media and whether he's being fairly judged.
  He clearly did not believe that was the case Monday. He stepped to the podium armed with a video meant to frame his response in a positive light after his initial handling of the crisis has come under increasing scrutiny.
  After it aired, Trump grew increasingly irate as reporters probed the time line of his response, claiming the criticism wasn't fair and that he'd handled the outbreak effectively.
  "Everything we did was right," Trump insisted after an extended tirade against negative coverage.
  Pressed later about his authority to reopen parts of the country, Trump delivered an eyebrow-raising statement asserting absolute control over the country.
  He later added he would issue reports backing up his claim, which legal experts say isn't supported by the Constitution.
  Keep reading. 
  
  Watch: 
  
  
  California will spend $42 million to protect foster kids and vulnerable families during the coronavirus pandemic.
  Much of that money will be spent on 59,000 youth in foster care across the state, and by providing an extra $200 per month for the 25,000 most at-risk families in an effort to help keep vulnerable families together.
  Other programs receiving extra funding include family resource centers, expanding telephone helplines, and providing laptops and cell phones for foster children in need of that technology.
  Gov. Gavin Newsom described how he grew up in a family with his foster brother, Steven Ashby. He noted that caring for at-risk children is a challenge, especially because visits from Child Protective Services are limited under the stay-at-home orders. 
  Without school and other activities, reports are down, the governor said.
  The timeline for emancipation of teens aging out of the system will be extended, permitting them to remain in foster care for the time being.
  Responding to criticism of his administration's response to the coronavirus, President Donald Trump touted his decision to limit travel from areas which had more coronavirus cases than the US at the time.
  Trump told reporters Monday, "I did a ban on China, you think that was easy? Then I did a ban on Europe and many said it was an incredible thing to do."
  Asked later about whether he’d be willing to lift travel restrictions as part of opening up the country, Trump added, “Right now we have a very strong ban. We will keep it that way until they heal.”
  Facts First:  It's misleading to call the travel restrictions Trump announced against China and Europe a ban because they contained multiple exemptions. Only foreign nationals who had been in China, Europe's Schengen area, the UK or Ireland within the past 14 days are outright banned from entering the US. 
  As of  February 2 , US citizens who had been in China's Hubei province in the two weeks prior to their return to the United States are subject to a mandatory quarantine of up to 14 days upon their return to the US. American citizens returning from the rest of mainland China may also face up to 14 days of quarantine after undergoing health screenings at selected ports of entry. 
  The broader  European travel suspension  Trump announced on March 11 applied to the 26 countries in the Schengen area, a European zone in which people can move freely across internal borders without being subjected to border checks. While Trump initially identified the United Kingdom as exempt, additional countries that are not in the Schengen area and thus also exempt from the restrictions include Ireland, Croatia, Cyprus, Bulgaria, Romania, Ukraine, Serbia, Armenia, Montenegro, Belarus and Russia. As of March 14, the ban was  expanded  to include foreign nationals traveling from UK and Ireland.
  The restrictions also did not apply to US citizens returning from Europe as well as permanent US residents and certain family members of both citizens and permanent residents. 
  You can read more about the European travel restrictions  here .
  A study by the Italian Health Institute (ISS) analyzed the characteristics of the evolution of the Covid-19 infection in Italy and concluded it bore similarities to what happened in Wuhan, China.
  The report says the Italian cluster "showed worse clinical outcomes" in elderly males with previous health conditions, resembling the most at risk patients in Wuhan.
  According to the institute, the initial reproduction number or R0 — the average number of people who will catch the disease from a single infected person — was 2.96 in the region of Lombardy, one of the most affected. The study says that by mid-February, the R0 had edged up slightly to three.
  Silvio Brusaferro, head of the ISS had said during his weekly briefing that R0 levels should ideally be below one to flatten the Covid-19 curve. 
  "Initial R0 at 2.96 in Lombardia, explains the high case-load and rapid geographical spread observed. Overall Rt [the virus' transmission rate at a given time] in Italian regions is currently decreasing albeit with large diversities across the country, supporting the importance of combined non-pharmacological control measures," the report says.
    
  In response to the Covid-19 pandemic, the NFL and the NFL Players Association (NFLPA) have reached an agreement on modifications to the rules regarding offseason workout programs and minicamps.
  CNN has obtained a memo of those changes, dated Monday, from the NFL Management Council to chief executives, presidents, general managers and head coaches.
  Starting next week, there will be a “Virtual Period” portion of the offseason program while team facilities remain closed, and later there will be an “On-Field Period” for when team facilities reopen. The virtual period will start April 20 until May 15.
  During the virtual period, teams can conduct classroom instruction, workouts, and non-football educational programs using Skype, or any other appropriate platform, on a “virtual” basis.
  When team facilities reopen for the on-field period, teams may resume offseason workout programs, including all permissible on-field activities, under the customary rules in the collective bargaining agreement.
  The reopening of team facilities will occur in accordance with protocols established by the NFL, conforming with federal, state and local rules and regulations, and only after consultation with the NFLPA, which will be made widely known to teams at the appropriate time. 
  If one or more NFL team facility remain closed for any period of time, all team facilities will remain closed during that period.
  As it has been in previous years, the program is voluntary to players. Veteran players who participate are to be paid the $235 daily minimum amount, and players with offseason workout bonuses must be credited for their participation in those sessions.
  Each team may elect to continue its offseason workout program beginning May 18, either under a virtual format or under an on-field format, depending upon conditions.
  The virtual period will end and the on-field period will begin for all teams at any point during the offseason workout program when all NFL team facilities have reopened.
  All offseason workout programs end for all teams on June 26.
  
  
  Louisiana Gov. John Bel Edwards said he will issue a proclamation Tuesday ordering public schools to remain closed for the rest of the academic year because of the novel coronavirus.
  Edwards explained that distance learning would continue at a news conference Monday.
  
  President Trump said he will ask for a “major delay” to the 2020 Census to make sure it is completed safely and accurately.
  Trump said that the Census Bureau will ask Congress for a 120 day extension — an extension he feels is not long enough.
  “In addition as millions of Americans continue to complete their questionnaire online, the Census Bureau asked Congress for a 120 day extension. I don't know if you even have to ask them. This is called an act of God. This is called a situation that has to be — they have to give it and I think 120 days isn't nearly enough,” Trump said.
  Why the Census Bureau is asking for an extension : The late revisions to the census data collection timeline means officials need more time to compile the data that is used to apportion members of Congress among the states, as well as the data that states use to draw congressional districts. 
  Federal law requires some of that data be compiled before the end of this year, so being granted the extension would allow the final counts to be delivered to the President in April and July of 2021.
  
  Watch: 
  
  President Trump said the White House will announce tomorrow the creation of a committee — or multiple committees — focused on reopening the country in the weeks ahead.
  “We’ve also as you’ve probably heard, developed a committee. We’re actually calling it a number of committees with the most prominent people in the country, the most successful people in the various fields, and we’ll be announcing them tomorrow,” Trump said at the coronavirus task force briefing. 
  The President said his team is debating the blueprint for opening parts of the country, something he said he expects to happen “quickly.” 
  CNN has reported that White House chief of staff Mark Meadows is expected to chair the economic working group and that Ivanka Trump is expected to play a role in it as well.
  
  Watch: 
  
  
  During Monday’s coronavirus task force press briefing, the White House screened a campaign-style montage of clips attempting to positively frame President Trump’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic.
  The video featured commentators saying early in the virus’ spread that the coronavirus wasn’t as big as the flu and governors thanking the President and the task force. It also outlined a timeline of the President taking “decisive action” during the pandemic, “even as partisans sniped and criticized.”
  At one point in the video, an audio clip from New York Times reporter Maggie Haberman played. Haberman is heard saying the President’s move to issue China travel restrictions was “probably effective.”
  Haberman was one of the authors of a lengthy Times report detailing “Trump’s failure” on the coronavirus.
  As the clip of Haberman’s voice played, the President could be seen looking at reporters, smiling and pointing to the screen. 
  After the screening, Trump said, “It’s very sad when people write false stories … mostly from the New York Times.”
  Haberman’s quote was part of an appearance on the New York Times podcast The Daily. The quote from Haberman omits a final sentence, in which Haberman concludes that though the measure was probably effective,   “The problem is, it was one of the last things that he did for several weeks.”
  “I mean, if you had libel laws, they would have been out of business,” he continued, later saying that the Times story was “a fake.”
  Asked how the video was produced, Trump said, “That was done by a group in the office.”
  “They were just pieced together over the last two hours,” he continued, saying that there were likely “over a hundred more clips” available.
  The President also confirmed that the campaign-style video was put together by White House staff — federal government employees.
  “This was done by (White House Social Media Director) Dan (Scavino) and a group of people just put it together in a period of probably less than two hours,” he said.
  Asked why he felt the need to put the video together, Trump said, “Because we’re getting fake news and I’d like to have it corrected.”
  CNN's Em Steck contributed to this report. 
 