I acknowledge that a week of shelter in place has left me on the edge.  
  I used a beard clipper to cut my hair, resulting in a silent prayer that the governor’s home confinement order lasts at least two weeks. I’ve gotten into  Twitter fights  with people who thought I was selfish for griping about the endless texts outlining coronavirus policies from my local realtor, car wash and furnace repairman. And I’ve seriously considered venturing to a nearby grocery store to buy  Xanthan gum , in an effort to close a gap in my newly alphabetized spice shelf.  
  But when Texas Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick suggested that  senior citizens should risk a painful death  by COVID-19 in order to keep the economy humming for the younger generation, my head nearly exploded. Hell no, I’m not willing to let my parents die in order to keep his kids’ stock portfolio afloat.  
  Sen. Richard Burr, R.-N.C., might have engaged in  insider trading  to protect his money, but at least he didn’t propose a death-for-Dow solution that accepted hundreds of thousands of senior citizens being sacrificed for good unemployment numbers. 
  If Patrick’s plan were an oddity, attributable to inhaling too many Texas natural gas fumes, we could dismiss it. But it’s not. The notion of accepting mass deaths in exchange for a good economy has its origins in the primordial soup from which so many bad ideas have evolved: President Donald Trump.
  " WE CANNOT LET THE CURE BE WORSE  THAN THE PROBLEM ITSELF," Trump tweeted near midnight Sunday. He repeated that message at his  Monday coronavirus briefing , as he tried to convince the public that economic damage from stay-at-home orders is worse than people dying from the virus. On Tuesday, Trump said in a Fox News town hall that he wanted to see the country " opened up and just raring to go by Easter ." Later, he told the network he'd like to see churches “ packed ” on Easter Sunday. 
  While Trump has packaged his euphoric call for a return to work as " the end of our historic battle " and the “light at the end of the tunnel,” medical experts have warned that the light is actually a viral train barreling through the tunnel toward an American public that does not appreciate the explosion of cases that will soon be upon it.  
  The insidiousness of Trump’s strategy is not to simply persuade ordinary citizens to jeopardize their health by returning to work, but to deceive them regarding the magnitude of the risk. Trump has  referred to coronavirus  symptoms as often no more serious than the “flu,” and the alarm surrounding the proliferation of the virus as Democrats’ “new hoax.” 
  Meanwhile, on Wednesday at one New York City hospital, the virus claimed the lives of  13 people  and a cold storage truck has been stationed outside to hold the mounting body count.
  As a way of convincing the public that venturing back to work is no more dangerous than driving a car, Trump has compared the coronavirus with  auto fatalities , arguing that crashes do not justify outlawing cars. Of course, the difference is that cars come with great benefits and crashes are caused by human error, not the car. 
  COVID-19 offers no benefit, and its DNA is designed to infect on contact and cause a painful death. Given the slippery quality of Trump’s public service announcement, one has to wonder whether his personal attorney, Rudy Giuliani, was the brains behind it.
  Trump’s “ we have to do things to get our country open ” call to serve will be more compelling when he and his family lead by example. America looks forward to Trump shaking thousands of hands while on the campaign trail over the next few months. We eagerly await the live feed of first lady Melania Trump rubbing shoulders with local children and parents on the White House lawn for the annual  Easter Egg Roll  in two weeks. And it is with bated breath that we count the days until there are new images of daughter  Ivanka modeling local fashions  at crowded public mosques in foreign countries.  
  From an ICU doctor: Coronavirus frightens me. It's severe, unpredictable and it has no cure. 
  Returning to work in order to avoid an economic disaster would be more palatable if people were certain they would receive the necessary medical care should they contract COVID-19. But with hospitals at maximum capacity and basic equipment like masks, protective gowns and ventilators unavailable or about to be during the relative calm of a multistate lockdown, many do not believe Trump will have their backs if they need help.
  Putting aside the issue of health insurance, Americans have largely accepted the somber reality that not all medical treatments are guaranteed. Those in need of lifesaving organ transplants often face long waits, and their place in line might come too late. But efforts to apply this tragic formula to Trump’s “get back to work” policy are not fair. With access to a hospital bed and a ventilator, most cases of coronavirus can be successfully treated in a matter of weeks. Yet the president has  refused to use the Defense Production Act  to direct manufacturers to produce desperately needed medical supplies.  
  It is one thing to have no options that could save lives. It’s quite another to bow to the interests of private corporations that do not want the government telling them what to produce. The fact that Trump will undoubtedly rely on the same corporations, CEOs and corporate-funded political action committees to finance his reelection campaign exposes the molten immorality that is the lifeblood of Donald Trump. 
  Trump sold himself as a businessman who would run this country like he ran his businesses. Never mind that he ran his casinos into bankruptcy and that  Trump University was a scam he had to buy his way out of , to the tune of $25 million. In Trump’s world, profit is the bottom line. But a cost-benefit analysis is not acceptable when lives are at stake.  
  When lives are at stake, we need a leader who does not indulge his petty grudges and tell the governor of the hardest hit state that federal help will come only to those who “ treat us well .”  
  Q&A with Tom Frieden: Coronavirus response so far sidelines CDC, and former CDC chief feels 'less safe' 
  And when lives are at stake, we need a leader who does not submit to personal paranoia, as Trump did on Wednesday when he  accused the news media  of trying to keep the country shut down in order to hamper his reelection bid. 
  Italy and Spain have removed older people from ventilators to save younger victims of the coronavirus. It's a terrifying reality that we will soon likely face ourselves. 
  It is a reality Americans should not accept. Until the president ensures that adequate medical supplies are available, and until infectious disease experts say it’s safe to go back to work, shelter in place must continue.  
  Folklore has it that people were confident Trump would “rise to the occasion” once he took office. If there was ever a time for Donald Trump to put the needs of others above his own, this is it. 
  Michael J. Stern, a member of USA TODAY's Board of Contributors, was a federal prosecutor for 25 years in Detroit and Los Angeles. Follow him on Twitter:  @MichaelJStern1 
 