ATLANTA — President Trump on Wednesday criticized the decision of a political ally, Gov. Brian Kemp of Georgia, to allow many businesses to reopen this week, saying the move was premature given the number of coronavirus cases in the state.
  “I want him to do what he thinks is right, but I disagree with him on what he is doing,” Mr. Trump said at a White House briefing. “I think it’s too soon.”
  Mr. Kemp, a Republican, announced on Monday that  he had cleared the way  for what he described as a measured process meant to bolster the economy, as Georgia, like the rest of the nation, grapples with the devastation brought by the pandemic.
  Yet the decision  was immediately assailed , as public health experts, the mayors of Georgia’s largest cities and others warned that it stood to have perilous consequences. Mayors said the decision had caught them off-guard and questioned its wisdom. Business owners who were otherwise eager to revive their livelihoods said they would hold off.
  The governor’s plan gives permission to gyms, hair and nail salons, bowling alleys and tattoo parlors to reopen on Friday. Then, on Monday, restaurants are allowed to resume dine-in service, and movie theaters and other entertainment venues can reopen.
  “I love those people that use all of those things — the spas, the beauty parlors, barbershops, tattoo parlors,” Mr. Trump said on Wednesday. “I love them. But they can wait a little bit longer, just a little bit — not much, because safety has to predominate.”
  Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, also expressed concern. “I would tell him that he should be careful,” he said about Mr. Kemp at the White House briefing on Wednesday.
  “I know that there is a desire to move ahead quickly,” he continued. “But going ahead and leapfrogging into phases where you should not be, I would advise him as a health official and as a physician not to do that.”
  Mr. Kemp acknowledged speaking with Mr. Trump in a series of Twitter posts after the president’s briefing. And while he praised Mr. Trump for his “bold leadership and insight,” he gave no indication he was reconsidering his decision.
  “Our next measured step is driven by data and guided by state public health officials,”  he wrote .
  Mr. Kemp said that businesses that choose to reopen this week were required to enforce social distancing rules, and that they should check employees’ temperatures for fevers and step up sanitation efforts.
  The decision, he said, was “a small step forward and should be treated as such.”
  Mr. Kemp was not alone in announcing plans to reopen. The governors of Tennessee, Ohio and Colorado have indicated they would not extend stay-at-home orders that expire next week.
  In South Carolina, Gov. Henry McMaster, a Republican who put in place a stay-at-home order two weeks ago, reopened beaches and allowed some retailers to resume operating on Tuesday.
  Mr. Kemp had been among the governors who resisted pursuing aggressive stay-at-home measures, citing Georgia’s economy, as most states introduced them. He relented, though, and issued a shelter-in-place order that went into effect on April 3, saying the threat posed by the virus had escalated to a level eclipsing his other concerns. Yet his order also weakened some local efforts,  forcing the reopening of beaches  that had been closed and pushing at least one city to consider legal action.
  On Monday, Mr. Kemp told reporters he believed that the crisis had leveled off to a point where he felt comfortable reopening. But data indicates that the number of coronavirus cases continues to climb, and that the number of deaths is not projected to peak until early next month.
  Georgia has  more than 21,000 confirmed cases  of the coronavirus, with 846 deaths reported as of Wednesday, according to state health data. Most of the cases have been clustered in the counties making up the Atlanta metropolitan area, yet the county with the most reported deaths was Dougherty County, in the southwest part of the state.
 