President Trump “remains healthy” and suffered no side effects from taking the drug hydroxychloroquine as a protection against the novel  coronavirus , his White House doctor said Wednesday as part of a general annual health update.
  At 244 pounds, Trump was a pound heavier than at his last physical, but his cholesterol was 29 points lower, at 167. He is medically obese, defined as having a body mass index above 30. Trump’s BMI is just slightly above that, at about 30.5.
  The report by Navy physician Sean P. Conley came more than six months after the president visited Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda , Md.,  for what the White House said was the first portion of his annual physical. A president’s annual physical is typically done in one visit, as Trump’s was in February last year, and the results released shortly thereafter.
  Results of Trump’s Nov. 16 visit to Walter Reed were not released at the time. It remains unclear what was done then or when the remainder of the exam was completed, although mention of the very recent drug regimen indicates that at least some of the tests were completed no later than last month.
  “Following the diagnosis of covid-19 in two West Wing staffers this past May, as a preventative measure, the president took a two-week course of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), with zinc and vitamin D,” Conley wrote in the summary report issued by the White House.
  “This was done in consultation with his appropriate care team members and close monitoring of the electrocardiogram (EKG) for changes in QT level,” Conley wrote, referring to tests measuring the electrical activity of the heart.
  Conley did not say that he prescribed the drug. Nor did he say who did if he did not prescribe it.
  Trump pushed the drug, which is approved to prevent malaria and for other uses, as a potential treatment for the virus that has killed more than 100,000 people in the United States, despite no medical evidence that it worked either as a treatment for the disease caused by the virus or to prevent infection. He said he heard “good stories” about it.
  The danger in taking the drug is that it can prolong the “QT interval” — the time it takes for the heart’s electrical system to reset between contractions, which push blood into the vascular system and around the body, medical experts say. That can set off dangerous heart arrhythmias in some people.
  The FDA in April  warned against  the use of hydroxychloroquine outside a hospital setting or a clinical trial, just weeks after it had approved an emergency use authorization for the drug. Coincidentally, results of the first major trial of the drug were released Wednesday about the same time that Trump’s physical came out; it showed that the drug had no value in preventing infection by the novel coronavirus.
  The FDA acknowledged that since the drug was approved for malaria and other uses, doctors are legally permitted to prescribe it for whatever purpose they choose.
  Nisha Parikh, a preventive cardiologist at the University of California at San Francisco, said Trump’s blood pressure of 121/79 is at the edge of the “elevated” range. A person with that reading and a body mass index that qualifies as obese, as Trump’s does, should be considering changes to his diet, exercise regimen and stress levels, she said, acknowledging that for Trump, the latter is not possible.
  Dietary changes would include more whole grains and increased consumption of fruits and vegetables, she said. A normal weight for a man of Trump’s height would be about 199 pounds, she said.
  Trump takes a high-dose statin. The drug and genetic advantages could account for his excellent cholesterol and triglyceride levels, Parikh said. The president also is taking aspirin, presumably to prevent heart disease, but that is no longer recommended now that research has found it has no more effect than statins, Parikh said.
  White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany announced the completion of the physical during a news briefing Wednesday, but she did not detail the findings. The summary released by the White House is a memo from Conley to McEnany, a practice also followed for other presidents.
  The 73-year-old president favors fast food and red meat. He does not exercise regularly apart from playing golf, which he has not been able to enjoy for much of the spring because of the coronavirus pandemic. Trump has said he takes a statin drug to manage his cholesterol, and the drug Rosuvastatin is listed among those Conley said are prescribed for the president.
 