This fact check has been updated.  
  “I’ve heard very quick numbers — a matter of months — and I’ve heard pretty much a year would be an outside number. So I think that’s not a bad — that’s not a bad range. But if you’re talking about three to four months, in a couple of cases, and a year in other cases — wouldn’t you say, doctor, would that be about right?”  
  —   President Trump,  coronavirus  roundtable meeting, March 2, 2020 
  “ We’re moving aggressively to accelerate the process of developing a vaccine. … A lot of good things are happening and they’re happening very fast. I said, ‘Do me a favor, speed it up, speed it up.’ And they will — they’re working really hard and quick.”  
  — President Trump, National Association of Counties Legislative Conference, March 3, 2020 
  President Trump has adopted a new refrain: A vaccine for the  novel coronavirus  will be completed in record time. On several occasions, the president has bragged about the  speed  with which experts and pharmaceutical companies are working on a vaccine.
  Trump is not wrong in saying that scientists are rapidly developing a vaccine to combat the novel coronavirus. However, he seems to be overstating when a vaccine will be available to the public.
  Health experts say they have completed vaccine options ready for testing at a historically fast rate. However, a vaccine available for public use is different than a vaccine ready for the first phase of testing. Experts have emphasized that actual deployment of the vaccine is more than a year away, not a few months, as Trump has suggested.
  Anthony S. Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said at a  White House news conference  on Feb. 26: “So although this is the fastest we have ever gone from a sequence of a virus to a trial, it still would not be applicable to the epidemic unless we really wait about a year to a year and a half.”
  Fauci testified  about the novel coronavirus at a Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions hearing March 3 and laid out a comprehensive timeline for vaccine development.
  Peter Jay Hotez , the dean of Baylor’s National School of Tropical Medicine, said Baylor and the Texas Children’s Hospital Center for Vaccine Development have developed a vaccine for this strain of the coronavirus that they’re hoping to test soon.
  Hotez remains hopeful that a vaccine will exist but cautioned that the vaccine development process is often slow, to ensure maximum safety.
  “Clinical testing of vaccines for both safety and to see whether they work is not a quick process,” Hotez said. “I doubt very much that we’ll have a vaccine in time for this epidemic, maybe if this virus returns on an annual basis. We’ll have a vaccine downstream. But unfortunately, I think for now, we have to look at the realistic prospect that we’re going to have to battle this virus without the benefit of a vaccine.” 
  Trump met with several pharmaceutical executives  and a coronavirus task force March 2 at the White House. Some of the CEOs reiterated the importance of vaccine safety and effectiveness over speed.
  “Vaccines have to be tested because there’s precedent for vaccines to actually make disease worse. You don’t want to rush and treat a million people and find out you’re making 900,000 of them worse,” said Leonard Schleifer, founder and chief executive of Regeneron.
  Trump appears to be expediting the vaccine development process, misrepresenting how fast a vaccine will be available to the public in fighting the novel coronavirus. Fauci has repeatedly corrected the president’s comments on the vaccine to put forward a more accurate timeline.
  As the United States and the rest of the world  prepare  for the novel coronavirus to continue spreading, it’s important to share factual information about the virus and methods to combat it.
  Update: A coronavirus vaccine was administered to the first U.S. citizen on Dec. 14. The vaccine development was faster than scientists expected, in part due to the high caseloads in the U.S. 
  Send us facts to check by filling out  this form 
  Sign up for The Fact Checker  weekly newsletter 
  The Fact Checker is a verified  signatory to the International Fact-Checking Network code of principles 
 