President Trump wants to paint former vice president Joe Biden as weak on China. Trump  repeatedly lies  that Biden opposed his travel restrictions against China at the start of the pandemic, an order that Trump  delinquently  imposed and that fell short of an outright ban.
  In fact, Biden was an early skeptic about China’s assurances concerning the novel  coronavirus . In February,  he said , “What I would do were I president now, I would not be taking China’s word for it. I would insist that China allow our scientists in to make a hard determination of how it started, where it’s from, how far along it is. Because that is not happening now.” 
  Trump, meanwhile, has seemed eager to please China, hoping to seal an election-year  trade deal  (because, hey, even if Americans died, at least Trump could wave that deal in front of voters). In January, Trump  extolled  China for its cooperation, saying: “Hopefully, it won’t be as bad as some people think it could be, but we’re working very closely with them [the Chinese] and with a lot of other people and a lot of other countries. We think we have it very well under control.” He added, “We’re working very closely with China and other countries and we think it’s going to have a very good ending for us. That I can assure you.” 
  In April, The Post and the New York Times documented the numerous times Trump had praised China. Delaying his reaction to the severity of the pandemic, Trump “consistently praised Chinese President Xi Jinping despite warnings from U.S. intelligence and health officials that Beijing was concealing the true scale of the outbreak and impeding cooperation on key fronts,”  The Post said . As the Times  reported , “The virus at first took a back seat to a desire not to upset Beijing during trade talks, but later the impulse to score points against Beijing left the world’s two leading powers further divided as they confronted one of the first truly global threats of the 21st century.”
  Asked at an  April press briefing  about his praise for China, Trump rambled on:
  On April 17 , he said he was holding off on raising covid-19 with China because he wanted to see how Beijing was living up to its trade obligations:
  Trump later acknowledged where his real priorities lie. “Well, I’m making a trade deal with China. This was before the virus. Of course I’m going to be complimentary,” he said at an appearance before seniors on April 30.
  Fast forward to September during his  town hall on ABC News . Trump again explained his initial praise for Xi. Asked if he misjudged the Chinese president, Trump insisted, “I don’t think I did. We just finished a trade deal. We just had the largest order of corn in the history of our country last week, the largest order of soybeans, largest order of beef, because they know I’m very unhappy. They know I’m very, very unhappy.” 
  In short, Trump has been quite open about his decision to avoid conflict with China to secure a trade deal, which he saw as a winning political prize. Trump  was at it again  Monday on “Fox & Friends.” When asked about a report that China lied to him about covid-19, he immediately jumped to his trade deal. He had to be prompted to comment on China’s responsibility for the  almost 200,000 American deaths  from the disease, about which he finally said, “They could have stopped it.” 
  Trump’s spin cannot change the record. Say “China,” he says “trade deal.” That election-year prize, not a confrontation with China over covid-19, has clearly dominated his thinking since January. He weighed the benefits of a trade deal against the potential cost to human life (of which he was well aware, as he  told  The Post’s Bob Woodward). For him, it was not even close. Voters, I am certain, will not see the trade-off the same way.
  Read more: 
  Greg Sargent: Trump’s latest Supreme Court spin unmasks the GOP’s vile game 
  Dana Milbank: They couldn’t even wait until Ruth Bader Ginsburg was in her grave 
  James Downie: Ted Cruz accidentally shows Democrats the way forward 
  Hugh Hewitt: Yes, expect fireworks. But we’ll get a Supreme Court confirmation. 
  Jennifer Rubin: Biden blows up the notion RBG’s seat helps the right 
  The Post’s View: Judicial term limits are the best way to avoid all-out war over the Supreme Court 
 