Good morning and welcome to  Fox News First .  Here's what you need to know as you start your day ...
  Trump slams 'China-centric' WHO over handling of coronavirus pandemic, may suspend funding 
President Trump, in an interview on "Hannity" on Tuesday, slammed the World Health Organization (WHO) for its "China-centric" views, adding the global health agency's projections and pronouncements about the coronavirus pandemic have been routinely wrong.
  One of WHO's earliest flawed pronouncements, the president told host Sean Hannity, was to strongly recommend against the U.S. restricting travel from China.
  "The World Health [Organization] -- very China-centric, as I say --  basically everything was very positive for China," Trump said. "Don't close your borders, they strongly recommended. ... That would've been a disaster, that would've been a total disaster."
  "And literally, they called every shot wrong," the president added. "They didn't want to say where [coronavirus] came from. For many years, we've been funding the World Health Organization."
  Earlier Tuesday at a news briefing, Trump said he may  put a "very powerful hold” on U.S. funding  to the WHO.   Click here for more on our top story . 
  Other related developments: - To get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox,  sign up here . 
-  Trump removes inspector general  poised to oversee coronavirus stimulus funds 
- Crenshaw  slams Hillary Clinton tweet , defends Trump coronavirus response 
-  Acting Navy secretary resigns  after criticizing ousted USS Theodore Roosevelt commander
  California governor planning coronavirus aid for illegal immigrants 
California Gov. Gavin Newsom and the state Legislature are working on a coronavirus aid plan for the state’s illegal immigrants and others not covered by the federal government’s $2.2 trillion relief package.
  Newsom, a Democrat, disclosed the plans Tuesday, according to The Associated Press. “Californians care deeply about undocumented residents in this state,” the governor, a former mayor of San Francisco, said.
  But some California Republicans have spoken out against the plan. “I see the state of California and its budget as a house of cards and with this coronavirus-induced recession, I’m just trying to figure out where the money would come from,” state Sen. John Moorlach, a Republican from Costa Mesa, told the AP. “I would say helping undocumented would be a luxury item.”  Click here for more. 
  Other related developments: 
-  Coronavirus in the US:  State-by-state breakdown 
- Coronavirus:  What you need to know 
- Calif. couple contract coronavirus after  cruise to 'safest place' Antarctica 
  Birx says government is classifying all deaths of patients with coronavirus as 'COVID-19' deaths, regardless of cause 
The federal government is classifying the deaths of patients infected with the coronavirus as COVID-19 deaths, regardless of any underlying health issues that could have contributed to the loss of someone's life.
  Dr. Deborah Birx, the response coordinator for the White House coronavirus task force, said the federal government is continuing to count the suspected COVID-19 deaths, despite other nations doing the opposite.
  "There are other countries that if you had a pre-existing condition, and let's say the virus caused you to go to the ICU [intensive care unit] and then have a heart or kidney problem," she said during a Tuesday news briefing at the White House. "Some countries are recording that as a heart issue or a kidney issue and not a COVID-19 death.
  "The intent is ... if someone dies with COVID-19 we are counting that," she added. Asked whether the numbers could skew data the government is trying to collect, Birx said that would mostly apply more to rural areas where testing isn't being implemented on a wide scale.  Click here for more . 
  Other coronavirus developments: 
-  Infectious disease expert  warns coronavirus pandemic could be 'the first inning of a 9-inning game' 
- Biden says coronavirus  could 'eclipse' Great Depression in economic toll 
- Former FDA commissioner says  most Americans may not have coronavirus immunity  despite surge in cases
  CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP 
  TODAY'S MUST-READS America Together:  Send us your photos  and we'll tell your story as the nation battles coronavirus. 
Michigan nursing home patient  asked Alexa for 'help'  before dying from coronavirus. 
Wisconsin National Guard  mobilized as poll workers  for Tuesday's primary election. John Prine dead at age 73  from coronavirus complications.
  THE LATEST FROM FOX BUSINESS 
Coronavirus  stimulus checks won't be enough , says one-third of Americans. Stock futures trade higher  amid uncertainty over the coronavirus outbreak. Private ventilator demand  for coronavirus patients surges among rich.
  #TheFlashback:  CLICK HERE  to find out what happened on "This Day in History." 
  SOME PARTING WORDS 
  Fox News senior political analyst Brit Hume takes on the projection models used to authorize the drastic measures to protect Americans from the coronavirus pandemic.
  Not signed up yet for Fox News First?  Click here  to find out what you're missing. 
  Click here  to find out what on Fox News and Fox News Radio today! 
  
Fox News First is compiled by Fox News' Bryan Robinson. Thank you for making us your first choice in the morning! Stay safe and stay positive -- we will get through this coronavirus crisis together. We'll see you in your inbox first thing Thursday morning. 

 