WASHINGTON –  President Donald Trump  said Friday that he would "most likely" be tested for  coronavirus , but not because of people he's recently interacted with who have either contracted the virus or been exposed to it.
  Speaking at a Rose Garden news conference where he declared a national emergency over the coronavirus pandemic, Trump was pressed about his interactions with officials who have tested positive, including an official from Brazil who was photographed and dined with Trump recently at his Florida resort, Mar-a-Lago. 
  “Not for that reason but because I think I will do it anyway,” Trump said of news of the Brazilian official. “Fairly soon, we’re working out a schedule.”
  He said White House doctors said because he has shown no symptoms of infection, a test is not required. Trump also said Americans shouldn't request a test unless their physicians think one is necessary. 
  Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro announced on social media Friday that he tested negative for the virus, shooting down a media report that said he initially tested positive a week after he met with Trump at his Florida resort. 
  Fabio Wajngarten, Bolsonaro's communications secretary, tested positive for the coronavirus and that result has been "confirmed by a retest," Bolsonaro's office said in a statement Thursday.
  "I have no idea who he is," Trump said. "I haven't seen the picture. But I take a picture with somebody and I take sometimes hundred of pictures a day and that night I was taking hundreds of pictures." 
  Trump confirmed Bolsonaro's statements during his Rose Garden address and added that members of his delegation present for the Mar-a-Lago meeting showed "no symptoms whatsoever." 
  "We had a great meeting with the president of Brazil, Bolsonaro, great guy." Trump said. "And, as you know, he tested negative, meaning nothing wrong this morning and we got that word, too. Because we did have dinner with him. We were sitting next to each other for a long period of time."
  Earlier on Friday, the White House  said in a statement that Ivanka Trump , the president's daughter and senior adviser, was working from home after coming into contact with an Australian official who announced he was diagnosed with COVID-19. 
  The White House said Friday afternoon in a statement that Ivanka Trump has no symptoms, but she was working from home "out of an abundance of caution until guidance was given." 
  The latest examples underscore the difficulty of preventing Trump and other government officials from exposure to the fast-spreading coronavirus. Despite his interactions with those who have tested positive or have been exposed to others who have, Trump said Thursday he was "not concerned" about contracting the virus. 
  Several of Trump's congressional allies – including his incoming chief of staff Mark Meadows, Rep. Matt Gaetz, R-Fla., and Rep. Doug Collins, R-Ga. – have quarantined themselves after coming into contact with an individual who tested positive coronavirus at the Conservative Political Action Conference last month – where Trump also spoke. 
 