[This briefing has ended. For the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak in the New York area, read  Wednesday’s live coverage .] 
  Throughout the coronavirus outbreak, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, has insisted that the crisis requires him to be above politics and partisanship.
  But on Tuesday, as Mr. Cuomo battled President Trump over the authority that governors have to chart their own states’ course in response to the outbreak, the governor struggled to walk the line between antagonism and conciliation.
  On Monday, he and the governors of six Eastern other states said they were banding together to make a coordinated plan for reopening for businesses. Mr. Trump responded that only he had the authority to decide when states could restart their economies.
  “That is not an accurate statement,” Mr. Cuomo said at his daily briefing in Albany on Tuesday.
  Earlier, in four separate television appearances,  Mr. Cuomo took issue with the president’s assertion, saying at one point that any move to follow through on it would be “dictatorial .” 
  On CNN, when asked what he would do if Mr. Trump directed him to reopen New York, Mr. Cuomo said, “If he ordered me to reopen in a way that would endanger the public health of the people of my state, I wouldn’t do it.” 
  In a message posted on Twitter Tuesday, the president compared the governors’ actions to a mutiny. 
  “A good old fashioned mutiny every now and then is an exciting and invigorating thing to watch,” he  wrote, addressing the comment  to the “Democrat Governors.” “Especially when the mutineers need so much from the Captain.” Six of the seven eastern states in the coalition have Democratic governors. 
  Then, at his daily briefing in Albany, Mr. Cuomo hit back at the president again. 
  “We don’t have a king in this country,” the governor said. “We didn’t want a king. So we have a constitution and elect a president.”
  With that, he said he was finished with the argument. 
  “I put my hand out in total partnership and cooperation with the president,” Mr. Cuomo said. “If he wants a fight he’s not going to get it from me, period. This is going to take us working together. We have a real challenge ahead.”
  Acknowledging that Mr. Trump had expressed unhappiness with the governors who had agreed to collaborate, Mr. Cuomo said, “This is too important for anyone to play politics.”
  Mr. Trump appeared to reverse course on his claim to absolute authority later in the day, saying at a White House news conference that he would allow states to enact their own protocols for reopening    the economy.
   “I want him to take his time, do it right and then open New York,” the president said, referring to Mr. Cuomo. “I’m not putting any pressure on the governors.”
  Mr. Cuomo has repeatedly complained that Congress shortchanged New York in the  $2 trillion economic stabilization package  it passed last month.
  Among the governor’s grievances: States like Nebraska, Minnesota and Montana, he recently said, were getting far more money per virus case than New York, the U.S. epicenter of the pandemic.
  Mr. Cuomo cited  a news report  that estimated Nebraska would get about $379,000 per case while New York would get only $12,000.
  The specifics behind Mr. Cuomo’s complaint are somewhat arcane. But his demands for more federal aid for New York are a sign of the growing political pressure Congress will face in the coming weeks as elected officials from states hit hard by the virus seek relief from Washington.
  Lawmakers from New York and New Jersey have united on their own proposal : Congress should allocate at least $40 billion in additional federal aid for states, they say, and the money should be distributed based on each state’s share of the national total of virus cases.
  That would direct a large portion of the money to New York and New Jersey, the two states with the  greatest number of cases  in the nation.
  Survivors of transit workers who die of the virus will get $500,000 in so-called line-of-duty death benefits from the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, officials said on Tuesday.
  The authority, which oversees New York City’s subway and buses and two commuter railroads, and three labor unions agreed to the increased benefits after more than 50 transit workers died of the virus and thousands more became infected or were quarantined. ​
  “What our front-line workers have done during this pandemic is nothing short of heroic and we believe this agreement is another crucial step in recognizing their sacrifice,” Patrick J. Foye, the authority’s chairman said in a statement. The authority’s board is expected to approve the agreement next week.
  It had been unclear whether families of transit workers who died of the virus would qualify for line-of-duty benefits, which typically go to employees who die on the job, rather than the $50,000 in death benefits that is generally paid to families of workers who die of natural causes.
  Complicating the matter was the impossibility of determining whether someone contracted the virus at work.
  Tony Utano, the president of the Transit Workers Union Local 100, praised the agreement.
  “We can’t bring back our heroic co-workers but we can make sure their families are taken care of,” he said in a statement. “We will continue to fight in Albany for additional benefits to help the families left behind.”
  Around 2,269 workers had tested positive for the virus as of Monday, officials said, and 3,660 were quarantined, down from a high of 6,000. Since the outbreak began, 2,020 workers have returned to work upon recovering after becoming infected. 
  Crew shortages caused by the outbreak  have crippled the authority’s ability to operate service , with wait times on some subway lines ballooning to 30 minutes or more. With fewer trains running, trains have become overcrowded at times, stirring public health concerns.
  The Rev. Franklin Graham on Tuesday  accused elected officials and others in New York of harassment over their criticism of his medical organization , which is operating a field hospital in Central Park for coronavirus patients that requires workers to  sign a pledge  that they are Christians who oppose same-sex marriage.
  Mr. Graham posted  his accusation on Facebook  hours before Mount Sinai Health Systems, which teamed up with his organization, Samaritan’s Purse, last month, informed state lawmakers that it would begin requiring those who work for the group to sign a second pledge vowing not to discriminate against patients.
  Mr. Graham said Samaritan’s Purse, a nondenominational evangelical organization that often works in developing countries, had never discriminated against a patient and defended his group’s right to “lawfully hire staff who share our Christian beliefs” because it is a religious charity.
  Samaritan’s Purse opened a 68-bed Central Park hospital on April 1, but its role in the response to the virus in New York has been criticized because of its position on L.G.B.T. issues and the past statements and political activities of Mr. Graham, a vocal supporter of Mr. Trump’s.
  On Tuesday, Mr. Graham said that critics had been harassing Samaritan’s Purse with information requests while it was busy trying to save lives. He specifically mentioned the New York City Commission on Human Rights; the Reclaim Pride Coalition, a progressive L.G.B.T. group; and Democratic members of Congress.
  Gov. Philip D. Murphy of New Jersey said on Tuesday that another 365 people had died of the virus, by far the state’s largest one-day death total yet. New Jersey, which trails only New York in the number of cases and fatalities, has now recorded 2,805 virus-related deaths. (In Connecticut, Gov. Ned Lamont said another 69 people had died, bringing the toll there to 671.)
  The dead in New Jersey, Mr. Murphy said at his daily briefing, included Eddy Germain, a supervising engineer at the state Transportation Department; AlTerek Patterson, 38, a Bedminster police sergeant; and Iris Anaida Martinez Arroyo, a political activist who was born in Puerto Rico.
  New Jersey also recorded 4,059 new virus cases, for a total of 68,823.
  Despite the jump in fatalities — almost four times as many deaths were reported on Tuesday as on Monday — Mr. Murphy said the virus’s spread still appeared to be slowing.
  The number of virus patients on ventilators has been nearly flat for the past four days and is now 3 percent below the peak it reached last Friday, he said.
  “The curve is beginning, and I repeat, beginning to flatten,” Mr. Murphy said.
  Twenty-seven of the newly reported deaths involved residents of nursing homes and other long-term care facilities, which have been ravaged by the virus.
  In terms of the equipment needed in the fight against the virus, the state has provided long-term care facilities 800,000 surgical and N95 masks; more than 7,000 face shields; more than 4,700 surgical gowns; and 727,000 gloves, the health commissioner, Judith Persichilli, said.
  Asked at the briefing about Mr. Trump’s tweet about “Mutiny on the Bounty,”    Mr. Murphy had a question of his own. 
  “Was it the Charles Laughton ‘Mutiny on the Bounty’ or the Marlon Brando ‘Mutiny on the Bounty’?” the governor quipped.
  New York City, already a world epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak,  sharply increased its death toll by more than 3,700 victims on Tuesday , after officials said they were now including people who had never tested positive for the virus but were presumed to have died of it.
  The new figures, released by the city’s Health Department,  drove up the number of people killed in New York City  to more than 10,000, and appeared to increase the overall United States death count 17 percent, to more than 26,000.
  The numbers brought into clearer focus the staggering toll the virus has already taken on the largest city in the United States, where deserted streets are haunted by the near-constant howl of ambulance sirens. Far more people have died in New York City, on a per-capita basis, than in Italy, the European country with the most deaths.
  The revised death toll renewed focus on shortcomings in testing that have hamstrung city and state officials  since the beginning of the outbreak . A limited number of tests have been available, and until now, only deaths where a person had tested positive were counted among those killed by the virus in New York.
  But for weeks, the Health Department also had been recording additional deaths tied to the virus, according to two people briefed on the matter. Those cases involved people who were presumed to have been infected because of their symptoms and medical history.
  They were not included in the counts given publicly by Mayor Bill de Blasio because no tests had confirmed that the victims had the disease, Covid-19.
  The one-day death toll in New York State from the coronavirus rose again, to 778, Governor Cuomo said Tuesday, after declining for two days. The state has now recorded 10,834 virus-related deaths.
  But other indicators that measure the fight to contain the virus continued to be more encouraging, Mr. Cuomo said:
  “We think we are at the apex,” Mr. Cuomo said at his morning briefing in Albany.
  After warning for weeks that New York City’s return to normal depended on an increased capacity for virus testing, Mayor Bill de Blasio said on Tuesday that the city had taken steps to ensure a regular supply of test kits, about 400,000 per month.
  Starting next Monday, he said, the city planned to begin buying 50,000 test kits a week from a company in Indiana. 
  In May,    manufacturers and labs in New York City will begin to supply another 50,000 kits a week.
  “For the first time, we’re going to have a truly reliable major supply of testing,” Mr. de Blasio said.
  With the outbreak in New York appearing to plateau, Mr. de Blasio has focused on testing as a key element in the city’s plans to reopen businesses and control the future spread of the virus. 
  Testing is crucial in tracking the overall spread of the virus and in isolating those who are infected with it as new cases decline and transmission becomes less widespread.
  Even as he announced the city’s new efforts, Mr. de Blasio urged federal officials to continue to provide testing kits and the materials needed to produce them, saying it would help ease the burden on the city.
  “This does not let the federal government off the hook,” he said.
  Mr. Cuomo, who has often undercut Mr. de Blasio during the crisis, said later on Tuesday that he doubted the Indiana company would deliver 50,000 test kits a week to the city, because competition has been so fierce among governments for the limited supplies of equipment.
  “I bought 17,000 ventilators, and we only got about 3,000,” Mr. Cuomo said.    “The same thing’s going to happen with the testing. Do I believe we’re going to see those numbers actually produced? No.”
  The mayor also released the latest statistics on three indicators that he has said will have to move downward consistently for the restrictions that have effectively shut the city down to be eased.
  Only one of those indicators, the number of suspected Covid-19 patients admitted to city hospitals, had declined from Saturday to Sunday, according to the most recently available data. 
  The other measures — the number of intensive-care unit admissions of suspected Covid patients at the city’s public hospital, and the percentage of people testing positive for the virus — had both risen slightly.
  Mr. de Blasio also said local companies would soon be making enough face shields and surgical gowns that the city would become self-sufficient for those supplies, too.
  Some of New Jersey’s biggest names in music and television, including Bruce Springsteen and Jon Bon Jovi, will hold a live fund-raising telethon next Wednesday for the state’s  Pandemic Relief Fund .
  The broadcast, “Jersey 4 Jersey,” will include a range of New Jersey luminaries, appearing remotely from their homes. In addition to Mr. Springsteen and Mr. Bon Jovi, the Giants’ running back Saquon Barkley, comedians Chris Rock and Jon Stewart and the musician Tony Bennett will appear.
  The show, which will be aired worldwide on April 22 at 7 p.m. on Apple Music and AppleTV app and rebroadcast on local television and radio stations, will feature accounts from front-line workers and residents directly affected by the coronavirus.
  In three weeks, the Relief Fund has raised $18 million to provide grants to existing organizations with a track record of caring for vulnerable communities.
 