WASHINGTON — President Trump tested negative for the coronavirus, the White House physician said on Saturday, a week after having contact with multiple people who days later tested positive for the virus.
  “This evening, I received confirmation that the test is negative,” the physician, Sean P. Conley, said in a statement. “The president remains symptom free.”
  The announcement capped a week of uncertainty about the status of Mr. Trump’s health, as he decided not to quarantine himself and shook hands with chief executives who visited the White House and held meetings with administration officials working in the West Wing.
  And it was greeted with immediate skepticism from Mr. Trump’s critics, serving as the latest reminder of how the president is squandering the credibility he needs in a moment of national emergency — especially when it comes to his health.
  Mr. Trump revealed earlier in the day that he had been tested and was awaiting results, a little more than 12 hours after the White House physician said that because the president had no symptoms, a test was not necessary.
  The result was released hours after Ronna McDaniel, the chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, said she was quarantining at home and awaiting results after experiencing flulike symptoms. Ms. McDaniel had attended a fund-raising event last Friday night at Mar-a-Lago, where she introduced Mr. Trump.
  On Saturday, Mr. Trump’s almost casual admission at a White House news conference of his decision to get tested — not because of  his interactions with Brazilian officials  who later tested positive for the virus, but because of  news media coverage  — raised more questions than it answered.
  Mr. Conley  issued a letter at 11:55 p.m. on Friday  acknowledging that while the president interacted with at least two people who later tested positive for the coronavirus, he was not recommending home quarantine, and “testing for Covid-19 is not currently indicated.’’
  It was unclear if Mr. Trump took the test after the letter was released, or if Dr. Conley’s letter was a falsehood, or if the physician was misleading in his formulation that a test for the president was “not currently indicated” — which did not say directly whether Mr. Trump had been tested.
  In his follow-up statement on Saturday, Dr. Conley said that on Friday night, “after an in-depth discussion with the president regarding Covid-19 testing, he elected to proceed.”
  “I decided I should based on the press conference yesterday,” Mr. Trump said on Saturday. At his news conference in the Rose Garden a day earlier, the president was pressed repeatedly about whether he would be tested after interacting with a Brazilian official who tested positive for the virus just days after the two men met in Florida. “People were asking, did I take the test,” he said.
  A clip of Mr. Trump being pressed on the matter played repeatedly on cable news, and appeared to influence his decision to take one.
  Mr. Trump left the briefing room before reporters could ask follow-up questions, but the president said that he had taken his temperature and described it as “totally normal.”
  Stephanie Grisham, the White House press secretary, did not respond to questions about whether Mr. Trump took the test before or after the release of Dr. Conley’s letter, or why Mr. Trump would have taken a test in spite of the advice of his doctor.
  On Friday, Mr. Trump’s advice to Americans watching his news conference was that “they shouldn’t be jumping to get the test unless it’s necessary,” adding that “but I think they have to listen to their doctors.”
  A senior administration official said only that while testing was not necessary, Mr. Trump “requested the test, and it was his decision to make his personal medical test public.”
  Mr. Trump’s test took many officials by surprise. Vice President Mike Pence, a senior administration official said, learned only on Saturday morning that Mr. Trump had been tested. At the news conference, Mr. Pence was left to handle questions about the president’s decision, some of which he did not appear to know how to answer.
  Mr. Pence also indicated that he might soon follow the president’s lead. “I’m going to speak immediately after this press conference with the White House physician’s office,” he told reporters. The physician, he said, had previously advised him that he did not need testing.
  Mr. Trump, who sees strength as the most important quality someone can project, has often equated illness with weakness. Over the past week, he had resisted testing, disregarding the advice of Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, who has recommended tests and self-quarantine for anyone who has stood next to someone who had tested positive.
  Despite having the imprimatur of the highest level of American government, Dr. Conley’s decision not to recommend a test for Mr. Trump, or any sort of isolation, was at odds with the advice of other physicians, as well as medical experts on the administration’s own coronavirus task force.
  The standard protocol is to ask people exposed to a known coronavirus case to stay home, to monitor their own health and to refrain from their regular activities for 14 days, and to get tested if they develop symptoms, said Dr. Thomas M. File Jr., the president of the Infectious Diseases Society of America.
  As a head of state leading the nation through a turbulent time, the president has a singular responsibility to safeguard his health, said Lawrence O. Gostin, a professor of global health law at Georgetown University. By letting a week go by before agreeing to a test, Mr. Gostin said, Mr. Trump “gives exactly the wrong message to the public, and puts himself and his cabinet at risk.”
  But that decision was in line with the course of action Mr. Trump preferred — avoiding a test whose results could make him face a reality he might not want to acknowledge. It also followed a pattern of Mr. Trump’s career in politics: releasing memos and statements from medical professionals who are willing to say whatever he wants them to say about his health.  Dr. Harold N. Bornstein , Mr. Trump’s personal physician during the 2016 presidential campaign, later admitted that a flattering doctor’s letter he had released was dictated to him verbatim by Mr. Trump.
  Mr. Trump, some experts noted on Saturday, has still never released any details on an  unscheduled trip to Walter Reed National Military Medical Center  he took in November. Dr. Conley at the time described it vaguely as an “interim checkup,” but Mr. Trump has been unclear about his follow-up plans for a full physical examination.
  Whether Mr. Trump had been exposed to the coronavirus has been a subject of furtive discussion among some of his advisers, even before  his dinner with President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil , whose  aides later tested positive . Some have been watching for hints in his affect or physical appearance to determine whether he is feeling ill and they are relieved by the negative test result.
  Mr. Trump, they said, would be unlikely to want to admit feeling under the weather. During the 2016 presidential campaign, when Mr. Trump was battling a cold, aides declined to confirm anything was amiss about his health. People close to Mr. Trump said it was in character for the president to initially decline to submit to testing for an illness that he had played down for weeks.
 