The novel  coronavirus  pandemic has made voting more complicated — and potentially dangerous.
  For many countries, remote voting, either by mail or online, could offer a solution. Some nations that have held elections during the pandemic, including Poland and South Korea, promoted mail-in voting.
  Ahead of the November presidential election, the Trump administration has done the opposite.
  At a news conference Saturday, President Trump said universal mail-in voting would be “catastrophic” for the United States. “It’s going to make our country the laughingstock of the world,” he told reporters.
  Trump blocked an emergency infusion of federal funds for the U.S. Postal Service because he wanted to restrict voting by mail,  he said last week .
  Elections by mail pose a fraud risk, he said without evidence, arguing that ballots would take too long to process.
  On Tuesday, Postmaster General Louis DeJoy, a Trump ally, said he would  delay cost-cutting measures , including service reductions, until after the election — appearing to respond to critics who say the Trump administration is blocking, for political reasons, a practice that is common in parts of the world.
  In Switzerland, all eligible voters are sent ballots, which they can either send in by mail or bring to polling booths, weeks before elections. In some regions, voters can also cast ballots online.
  Voting by mail is by far the most popular option, accounting for nearly 90 percent of all votes in the country, according to  some studies . It is not clear whether it increases turnout, which is low by international standards — 45.1 percent last year, which some attribute to the complexity of the political system.
  Switzerland is an outlier, but other countries do see wide acceptance of mail-in ballots. Some have expanded their mail-in voting during the pandemic. In Australia, where voting is compulsory by law, political parties from across  the spectrum  pushed voters to vote by mail in regional elections this year.
  In South Korea, widely praised for its handling of a nationwide election during the pandemic, the left-of-center government gave coronavirus patients or those in isolation the option to vote by mail between March 23 and 28, several weeks ahead of parliamentary elections in April.
  In Poland, the right-wing government was forced to cancel plans to hold a vote exclusively via mail in the face of political opposition. Instead, it rescheduled the election to begin in late June and allowed voters to either mail in ballots or vote in person.
  The Polish election did see an increase in the use of mail-in ballots, which did not cause a significant delay to the  electoral process,  according to an analysis by Vasil Vashchanka of the International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance, and a subsequent legal challenge by the opposition was  defeated in court .
  Despite Trump’s opposition, mail-in ballots are in regular use in many parts of the United States. Five states vote primarily by mail: Colorado, Hawaii, Oregon, Utah and Washington.
  These states rarely report voter fraud; one of them, Utah, is a reliably red state that has voted for the Republican presidential candidate every year since 1964.
  For much of the rest of the country, mail-in voting is an option. A  Washington Post analysis  has found at least 77 percent of American voters will be eligible to cast ballots by mail in the fall.
  Online voting might seem like a natural next step. But so far, only one country has embraced it fully. Estonia has allowed Internet voting, which it calls “i-Voting,” since 2005, and in 2007 it began using it in national elections.
  The system, which the government says is “simple, elegant and secure,” is substantially cheaper than other ways of holding elections. It’s also popular: In the 2019 parliamentary elections, 43.8 percent of voters cast ballots online.
  But Estonia’s elections have faced criticism. In 2014, a group of international experts published a report that argued the  system should be withdrawn , pointing to a variety of potential technical problems and cybersecurity vulnerabilities. (Estonian officials  dismissed the criticism  as politically motivated.)
  Other countries have looked, with caution, to Estonia’s example, including neighboring Lithuania, which hopes to first test run an  Internet-based system with overseas voters . But for many governments, the potential for risks and complications has proved too high a barrier.
  In Switzerland, where Internet voting had been allowed in some regions for years, researchers said last year they had  found a significant flaw  in a new online voting system, prompting officials to pause its roll out.
  In the United States, some states and officials have expressed concerns about the safety and reliability of Internet voting. West Virginia was forced to backtrack on the use of one smartphone-based voting app in primaries earlier this year over possible  security flaws , although the state is  set to move forward  with future electronic voting plans.
  While remote voting, accelerated by the spread of the coronavirus, may prove the future of global elections, it comes with significant logistical hurdles. In some instances, officials may continue to choose simpler paths.
  Many nations have extended voting hours during the pandemic, sometimes allowing people to cast their ballot days or even weeks early. In South Korea, where two days of early voting were allowed in addition to mail-in ballots,  over a quarter  of eligible voters cast their votes before the election.
  New Zealand, which announced Monday it would delay its coming national election by four weeks, has pledged millions to its national election commission to expand opportunities to vote,  with voting open from Oct. 3  to election day on Oct. 17 and voters allowed to use any polling station they choose.
  Some parts of the United States may well follow such a system. Some may not. Unlike most other countries, the United States does not have a centralized government body that can set such rules.
  This report has been updated.  
 