WASHINGTON – President Donald Trump lobbed  another threat at Iran  on Wednesday, vowing to destroy any Iranian gunboats that "harass" U.S. vessels.
  "I have instructed the United States Navy to shoot down and destroy any and all Iranian gunboats if they harass our ships at sea," he tweeted.
  For Trump, it was another threat in a feud that brought the two countries to the brink of war earlier this year. But for some of the president's critics, it was the idea of shooting down a boat that caught their attention. They quickly pointed out that boats float on the water rather than fly in the air.
  "After this, we’ll sink their planes!" tweeted Princeton historian Kevin Kruse.
  "Are we 'shooting down' the flying boats?" tweeted Frank Figliuzzi, a former FBI assistant director. 
  Others said Trump was trying to distract people from his administration's struggle to contain the coronavirus pandemic.
  Joe Lockhart, former press secretary to President Bill Clinton, said it would be illegal to fire at ships based on "mere harassment," and the threat "does show how desperate the @realDonaldTrump is to distract from the pandemic."
  The White House had no comment on Trump's tweet.
  Trump's threat to Iran – the latest in a series – came a week after the nation said it is stepping up patrols in the Persian Gulf. The U.S. Navy reported that 11 Iranian ships approached their vessels in a "harassing" manner.
  Tensions between the United States and Iran  have been particularly high since Trump pulled out of the Iranian nuclear agreement and spiked sanctions on Tehran's fragile economy. And, like the United States, Iran has been hit hard by the deadly coronavirus.
  Trump and his aides have accused Iran-backed interests of attacking U.S. troops in neighboring Iraq and harassing American ships in the gulf.
  More: Trump crisis mismanagement on full display with roll of dice on Iran, Iraq and Suleimani 
  More: Exclusive: Americans say Soleimani's killing made US less safe, Trump 'reckless' on Iran 
  In early January, Trump authorized a drone strike that killed a top Iranian general, leading to  a retaliatory strike  on U.S. troops.
  On April 1, Trump said Iran and groups backing it were planning a "sneak attack" on U.S. troops in Iraq, and he threatened that the Iranians would "pay a very heavy price" if they carried it out.
  There have also been interludes of diplomacy, such as when Trump said he would help Iran fight the effects of the coronavirus if it asked.
  Then there are days like Wednesday, as social media lit up with critics and the idea of shooting down boats.
  "Trump thinks the Iranians have flying boats that he can shoot down," tweeted the Palmer Report, an account that focuses on political analysis.
  Trump supporters, meanwhile, focused on the president's pledge to "destroy" Iranian gunboats if necessary and praised the president for standing up to the threats emanating from Tehran.
  "President Trump has changed the Navy's rules of engagement at sea, ordering @USNavy to destroy #Iranian gunboats if they harass our ships," said  Twitter user Joe Chenelly . "Hopeful this deters further naval aggression by #Iran in international waters. Praying it doesn't lead to further escalation."
 