Monica Alba, Kristen Welker and Carol E. Lee
  WASHINGTON — Sunday was supposed to be a quiet day at the White House, with no  briefing  scheduled and a decision from senior aides to call a “lid” before noon, indicating there was no expectation of seeing  President Trump  for the rest of the day. 
  The president's top health officials and secretary of defense appeared on the morning shows, warning of a brutal week ahead, conceding the administration was “struggling” to get the pandemic under control, and predicting the coming days could be “the hardest moment for many Americans in their entire lives.”
  Given that it was Palm Sunday, the  coronavirus task force  was slated to meet remotely in the early evening via teleconference, led by Vice President Mike Pence from his residence. 
  But President Trump was not satisfied with that plan, according to a source close to the task force, and didn’t want the “dour” messages from the surgeon general and Dr. Anthony Fauci to be the only public-facing moments of the day. He felt it was important to have a presser to stress “glimmers of hope,” according to this person.
  U.S. Surgeon General Dr. Jerome Adams gave a dire projection on  Meet the Press  hours earlier, saying that this week “is going to be our Pearl Harbor moment, it's going to be our 9/11 moment.”
  Two officials close to the task force told NBC News that prior to Sunday they had not heard Adams refer to this week as the next Pearl Harbor and 9/11, and thought the language was a bit strong.
  Trump  therefore decided to convene the group in person in the Situation Room on Sunday and then floated the possibility of an evening press conference on Twitter, which even caught several aides off-guard.
  “It came as a surprise,” a senior administration official admitted.
  Reporters were ultimately called back to the White House and a lengthy, 83-minute briefing followed. Senior staffers have repeatedly argued a consistent presence from the president is as critical as ever.
  “It is important during this unprecedented crisis to hear from the president and these briefings are one of the methods he has chosen to communicate directly to the American people,” White House spokesman Hogan Gidley told NBC News in a statement.
  On Sunday afternoon, members of the task force eventually made their way to the West Wing, marking the second weekend in a row where they were asked to come to an in-person meeting after conference  calls had already been scheduled and publicly announced.
  The other instance was when Trump haphazardly floated a quarantine for the tri-state area last weekend and the abrupt nature and frenzied response caused the vice president and others to scramble to the Situation Room for an evening meeting. Hours later, the potential quarantine was walked back and scrapped entirely.  
 