President Trump has discovered a brand-new way to improve health metrics in the United States: Just ignore the parts you don’t like!
  As he put it when discussing covid-19 deaths  at a news briefing  Wednesday: "If you take the blue states out, we’re at a level that I don’t think anybody in the world would be at. We’re really at a very low level. But some of the states, they were blue states and blue-state-managed.”
  Trump may be onto something here. As The Post’s Philip Bump  explained , it’s true that “blue states” — assuming this refers to states that voted against Trump in 2016 — claim a higher percentage of the  194,000  covid-19 deaths in the United States so far. (The red states have been catching up fast after experiencing a surge in cases over the past few months, but that’s a minor detail.) The point is: To assess the state of the pandemic, why not just count the states that are most convenient? 
  
  
  We could apply such logic to lots of diseases. But, in fact, the covid-19 trend goes in the opposite direction from most of them. So if we want to brag about U.S. public health across the board, what we actually want to do is ignore  red  states.
  Consider heart disease, the  leading cause of death  in the United States. The affliction claims more than 600,000 Americans a year, with a  average per-state mortality rate  of 164 deaths per 100,000 people. But something magical happens when you focus just on blue states: The average rate falls to 150 deaths per 100,000 citizens. The rate for red states is 174.
  There are similar state-based health disparities throughout the list of top causes of death, including  cancer  (blues states have an average mortality rate of 145 deaths per 100,000, red states 156);  stroke  (blue states 34, red states 39);  Alzheimer’s disease  (blue states 28, red states 35);  diabetes  (blue states 19, red states 24) and  suicide  (blue states 14.5, red states 18). Red states even have a higher mortality rate for  influenza/pneumonia  (16 deaths per 100,000, compared with 14 for blue states), despite all the attention that conservatives gave the issue at the start of the pandemic.
  We can go further: Red states tend to have  much higher infant mortality . They even have  higher death rates  due to firearms.
  How have public health officials not yet discovered the brilliance of such data analysis? There are countless ways, it seems, that we can improve the state of health in America, if only we pretend that red states don’t exist!
  At this point, perhaps, we can expect some naysayers to cry out things such as “this is not how data works” or “this is the most blatant attempt at cherry-picking I’ve ever seen.” They might even argue that the president is supposed to govern the entire country, not just the states that vote for him or that make him look good. The only reasonable response to these complaints is “Psh. You’re just a deep-state scientist trying to make America look bad.”
  Really, we should thank Trump for awakening us to this brand-new scientific methodology. With this technique, he has found a way to show just how much the well-being of this country is being dragged down by disparities. Do we really need to care about those poor-performing states, anyway?
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Read more: 
  Jennifer Rubin: More Republican casualties from Trump’s coronavirus denial 
  Greg Sargent: Coronavirus is invading Red America, new data show. That’s ominous for Trump. 
  Jennifer Rubin: Will Republican governors pay a price for their recklessness? 
  Greg Sargent: The coronavirus is invading the battleground states 
  Hugh Hewitt: GOP governors are handling covid-19 better than Democrats, but you’d never know it from the news 
  Megan McArdle: Blue and red states should stop shaming each other on their covid-19 response. We’re in this together. 
 