"Saturday Night Live"  is taking on  coronavirus .
  The NBC show started with an  opening skit  of the  Democratic candidates  hijacking Vice President Mike Pence's White House news conference on combating coronavirus. 
  "President Trump has put me in charge of the coronavirus, even though I don’t believe in science," Beck Bennett's Pence said behind a podium. "And I have to admit, this disease has been quite a test of my faith – just like dinosaur bones or Timothée Chalamet, but I'm prepared for the challenge." 
  Bennett's Pence introduced Ben Carson (Kenan Thompson), described as "one of the most brilliant minds in medicine," to provide a reassuring health update to the masses. 
  "I’m Ben Carson, you know, the brain surgeon that they put in charge of house development," said Thompson's Carson. "Well, this is something I actually do know about, and in my expert opinion, it's going to be baaaddd."
  More 'SNL': Twitter slams Michael Che's 'bad' Steve Irwin joke on 'Weekend Update' 
  'Do not travel':   Americans urged to avoid Italy, South Korea amid coronavirus outbreak 
  Thompson's Carson likened coronavirus to Stitch from Disney’s "Lilo & Stitch" and encouraged citizens to purchase a "Make America Great Again" facial mask from the White House website as a precaution against the virus. 
  "It may take a couple months for delivery because they are made in Wuhan, China," Thompson's Carson added, referring to the Chinese city where the first cases of coronavirus were identified.
  The news conference was transformed into an impromptu Democratic debate after a handful of presidential candidates crashed it with their own insights, including Michael Bloomberg. 
  When Bennett’s Pence asked Bloomberg how he got into the news conference, the former New York mayor (Fred Armisen) said, "I just walked in coughing and everyone got out of my way."
  'SNL' rips Iowa Caucus:  Democratic contenders try to take the spotlight back from Trump 
  Coronavirus quarantine: Final Diamond Princess cruise crew members vacate contaminated ship 
  Elizabeth Warren (Kate McKinnon) wasn't too far behind. "Did you really think you were going to get away from me that easy?" she asked Bloomberg. "I might be fifth in the polls, but I’m No. 1 in your nightmares."
  Bernie Sanders (Larry David) took the opportunity to highlight his health care policy: "You have to admit, folks, universal health care doesn’t sound so bad right now."
  The other conference crashers included Joe Biden (played by guest host John Mulaney), Amy Klobuchar (Rachel Dratch) and Pete Buttigieg (Colin Jost), who said all the other candidates are "at high risk" for coronavirus.
  'SNL':   The future of drag is ... Pete Davidson? See his transformation 
  'Justin Bieber is back': Singer enthralls fans with first 'SNL' appearance since 2013 
 