Good morning and welcome to  Fox News First .  Here's what you need to know as you start your day ...
  Trump announces plan for reopening US in phases, rolling back social distancing: 'The Next front in our war’ 
President Trump on Thursday announced his plan for eventually rolling back social distancing measures and reopening the nation’s economy in several phases -- depending on location -- amid the coronavirus pandemic.
  The plan calls for three phases of reopening, based on the severity of the outbreak in each individual state or region.
  "We can begin the next front in our war, which we are calling 'Opening Up America Again,'" Trump said during a White House news briefing. "To preserve the health of Americans, we must preserve the health of our economy."
  The plan, which Trump announced along with the formation of a bipartisan council of lawmakers from both chambers of Congress, outlines “recommendations” for governors to develop their own plans to reopen. It also includes criteria that must be met regarding numbers of infections and hospitalizations before areas can open up.  Click here for more on our top story . 
  Other related developments:  - To get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox,  sign up here . - Click here to read  Trump's 'Opening Up America Again'   
-  Trump approval rating slides  in new poll
  Stock futures signal Friday rally on heels of promising coronavirus treatment, talks about reopening US 
U.S. stock futures, following President Trump's announcement of his plan to roll back social distancing measures and open the nation back up in stages, signaled a strong start to Friday's session, adding to the momentum seen Thursday.
  The Dow Jones Industrial Average are up more than 700 points or 3.1 percent while the S&P 500 was higher by nearly 3 percent and the Nasdaq Composite 2 percent as of 3:30 a.m. ET.
  In addition to Trump's announcement Thursday, there was also positive news on Gilead Sciences and its drug Remdesivir. According to Statnews.com, Remdesivir, an antiviral medicine used as a potential treatment for Ebola,  showed effectiveness for treating COVID-19 patients . A recent clinical trial of the drug found rapid recoveries in coronavirus patients' fever and symptoms.  Click here for more . 
  
Other related developments: 
-  Larry Kudlow admits  second quarter will be 'pretty awful', predicts May will be 'transition month' 
-  Saudi Arabia pledges $500M  to fight coronavirus pandemic 
- Coronavirus in the US:  State-by-state breakdown 
  FBI says state hackers have broken into US coronavirus research: report 
Foreign government hackers have broken into companies conducting research into COVID-19 treatment and the U.S. healthcare sector, an FBI official reportedly said.
  Tonya Ugoretz, the FBI Deputy Assistant Director, told participants in an online panel discussion on Thursday that the bureau has seen state-backed hackers looking at a series of healthcare and research institutions. She didn't specify what countries backed the hackers or what organizations were targeted.  Click here for more . 
  Other coronavirus developments: 
-  Ex-Trump lawyer Michael Cohen  to be released from prison due to coronavirus: source 
- ICYMI: Sources believe  coronavirus outbreak originated  in Wuhan lab as part of China's efforts to compete with US 
-  More than 16K US inmates released  as coronavirus crisis has progressed
  CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP 
  TODAY'S MUST-READS America Together:  Send us your photos  and we'll tell your story as the nation battles coronavirus. Chinese epicenter Wuhan  raises number of virus dead by about 50 percent. Biden shoots down Cuomo as VP pick , says it's 'important' that a woman be his running mate. Land O' Lakes drops 'racist' Native American  image from packaging after nearly 100 years.
  THE LATEST FROM FOX BUSINESS China posts first GDP decline  on record as coronavirus cripples economy Europe car sales tank 55 percent  in March on coronavirus lockdowns. 
Coronavirus stimulus cash  comes with glitches for some .
  #TheFlashback:  CLICK HERE  to find out what happened on "This Day in History." 
  SOME PARTING WORDS 
  "Life, Liberty & Levin" host Mark Levin rips  governors over coronavirus "dictates and fiats," saying some states are practicing "one-way federalism."
  Not signed up yet for Fox News First?  Click here  to find out what you're missing. 
  Click here  to find out what's on Fox News and Fox News Radio today! 
  
Fox News First is compiled by Fox News' Bryan Robinson. Thank you for making us your first choice in the morning! Stay safe, stay healthy and look out for one another  -- we will get through this coronavirus crisis together. We'll see you in your inbox first thing Monday morning. 
 