Mark Murray 
  WASHINGTON — With Senator Bernie Sanders deciding  to remain  in the Democratic presidential race — possibly all the way  through June  — it’s time to crunch the delegate numbers once again.
  And the exercise shows just how challenging the math is for the Independent Vermont senator.
  Overall, former Vice President Joe Biden leads Sanders by 312 pledged delegates, according to  NBC News’ Decision Desk .
  Biden has won 1,174 pledged delegates or 53 percent of all allocated pledged delegates, while Sanders has won 862 or 39 percent. 
  To reach the magic number of 1,991 — a majority of all pledged delegates — Biden needs to win 46 percent of the remaining pledged delegates.
  Sanders , by contrast, needs 64 percent of the remaining pledged delegates to obtain a majority.
  There are two main reasons why Sanders’ deficit is so daunting.
  The first is the Democrats’ proportional-allocation system. Unlike Republicans, who often award their delegates based on winner-take-all rules, Democrats award theirs proportionately — so if you win a state or congressional district 55 percent to 45 percent, you get 55 percent of the available pledged delegates while your opponent gets 45 percent.
  So the only way to rack up huge delegate hauls is to win a state decisively — like  Biden  did last week in Florida, when his 62 percent-to-23 percent victory in the state netted him 100-plus more delegates than Sanders earned in the Sunshine State.
  Bottom line: Narrow victories in future contests for Sanders won’t really cut into Biden’s lead.  
  The second delegate challenge for Sanders is that there are fewer caucus contests than were four years ago.
  In 2016, Sanders was often able to keep close with Hillary Clinton because he’d rack up decisive victories in caucus states like Colorado or Washington state. But this time around, those states — and a few others — are holding primaries instead of caucuses, which keeps Sanders’ margin and his resulting delegate hauls smaller than they were in 2016.
  Sanders might trail Biden by just 312 delegates. But that deficit is really wider than those numbers suggest.
 