
  
  New York state added two more states to its list of states and territories that are subject to its Covid-19 travel advisory, bringing the total to 33.
  People traveling to the state from Alaska and Montana will now have to quarantine for 14 days upon arrival.
  New Jersey and Connecticut are expected to add the states to their list too, as all three neighbor states issued the same travel advisory guidance initially.
  "As we continue to pursue a phased, data driven reopening, the number of areas that remain on New York's travel advisory is a stark reminder of the continued extent of the COVID-19 crisis throughout the nation,"  said New York Governor Andrew Cuomo . 
  Meanwhile the State of New York has remained under a 1% transmission rate for its 25th day and ICU patients are at lows not seen since mid-March.
  Of more than 1,000 establishments visited by the State Liquor Authority and State Police Task force, only three were observed in violation – including two in New York City.
  The full, updated travel advisory list is  here .
  
  
  White House tours, which were suspended on March 12, are set to resume six months later on Saturday, Sept. 12. 
  Face coverings will be required for those over the age of 2, and group sizes will be limited to 18% of normal capacity, the first lady’s office said.
  Across the United States, 36 states are reporting 20,000 coronavirus cases at colleges and universities. 
  In an interview on CNN’s “New Day,” Erin Bromage, a UMass Dartmouth biology professor, said that one of the best way to keep Covid-19 in check is to test students three times per week. 
  Bromage also warned that we should not stigmatize against students who get coronavirus on campus.
  “Administrators had the choice of designing a plan of how they delivered education, and they had all of summer to do this,” he said.
  He said that it falls on school officials to find safe ways for students to socialize. 
  Watch more:  
  
  
  The group representing airlines worldwide on Tuesday endorsed passenger coronavirus testing at airports as a method for restoring international air travel.  
  International Air Transport Association CEO Alexandre de Juniac told reporters that testing “appears to be ready for being used in travel, giving confidence both to travelers and to governments.”   
  He said the group believes “the speed, accuracy and scalability of testing is rapidly improving,” and that testing will serve to “rebuild confidence, reopen borders, restart aviation, recharge demand, and support jobs.” Among the challenges, de Juniac acknowledged, is having enough testing technology to deploy to each airport and to process a large number of passengers with minimal waiting.  
  The group sees testing as one part of a three-point plan to expand international travel, including adopting a set of guidelines and international coordination so that entrance requirements are the same in every country.  
  It believes those protections would allow countries can drop restrictions, such as quarantine periods, which the group said is a key barrier to the industry’s success.  
  “The main issue we face is that most countries borders are closed to international travel,” said IATA economist Brian Pearce.  
  
  Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, on Tuesday responded to comments by President Trump that he doesn’t always agree with Fauci, and that he inherited him from previous administrations.
  Asked on ABC’s Good Morning America whether he thinks the President trusts him and his advice, Fauci said, “You know, I think he does.”
  “I think when you get statements like that, that doesn’t really reflect what actually goes on,” he added.
  Fauci said he was at the White House yesterday at a coronavirus task force meeting with the vice president, and that everything discussed gets to the President – and that he understands that.
  Previously, the President has questioned how  high Fauci's approval ratings  are and  criticized him openly  in  interviews  and on  Twitter . Fauci has defend his policy actions on  several occasions . 
  Catastrophic conditions in chaotic ill-equipped hospitals overflowing with  Covid-19  patients -- patients forced to wait for others to die so they can be put on ventilators that could save their lives.
  This is the situation in government-controlled parts of  Syria , where medics say the coronavirus pandemic has reached crisis levels with health workers and facilities overwhelmed by the surge of cases across the country in recent weeks.
  The Syrian Health Ministry has only confirmed 112 Covid-19 deaths in the country since March, with a total of 2,765 cases in regime-held areas.
  Just in the last three weeks, the official number of cases has doubled but, according to health workers in Syrian regime-held areas, the figures do not begin to reflect the real scale of the outbreak.
  Read more: 
  
  
  
  The novel coronavirus has infected more than 25.5 million people worldwide and killed more than 851,000. Here's what you need to know:
  
  There were no bricks and mortar, no fencing or cement, no cross-border diplomatic skirmish, just two government orders. And that was enough to essentially  shut down the world's longest international border for visitors .
  When the US and Canada mutually agreed in March to shut down the border to mitigate the spread of the coronavirus, no one predicted it would be closed this long. There is still no specified date for its reopening, although trade has continued between the countries.
  East to west, for thousands of miles, the border closure is redefining not just economic relationships, but personal lives, in ways no one expected.
  No longer. The border is shut tight for any trips that are deemed "non-essential" or discretionary and that includes all recreation and tourism.
  Read more: 
  
  Zoom's ( ZM ) revenue surged more than  350%  in the second quarter, and profits rocketed by nearly 10 times as much, as companies signed up for the video conferencing app to connect staff  working from home during the pandemic .
  The California-based video communication service provider  reported  a net profit of   $185.7 million for the quarter through July 31 -- up nearly  3,300%  compared with a year earlier. Revenues in the quarter were $663.5 million -- up  355% .
  Zoom's shares hit a record high on Monday ahead of the earnings statement, and then shot up by as much as  28%  in after-hours trading once the numbers were out.
  Read more: 
 