United Airlines  is taking more forward steps following COVID-19 flight suspensions, announcing Wednesday the addition of nearly 25,000 domestic and international flights in August, tripling the size of its schedule compared with June.
  While the United flights will remain at 40% of August 2019's pre-pandemic flight schedule even with the increase, the airline trumpeted the news that fliers are returning to the air. In June, United announced a return to  150 suspended U.S. and Canadian  destinations.
  "We’re taking the same data-driven, realistic approach to growing our schedule as we did in drawing it down at the start of the pandemic," Ankit Gupta, United’s vice president of Domestic Network Planning, said in a press release sent out before a press conference. "Demand is coming back slowly and we’re building in enough capacity to stay ahead of the number of people traveling." 
  Flight returns:  United Airlines restores flights at 150 U.S., Canadian destinations in July, add nonstops 
  The added flights will include major hubs, such as doubling the number of flights from New York/Newark compared with July, but will also emphasize passengers' desires to seek out open spaces, less prone to COVID-19 health risks. Added flights include mountain and national park destinations like Aspen, Colorado; Bangor, Maine; Bozeman, Montana; and Jackson Hole, Wyoming.
  Internationally, United’s August schedule will include a return to Tahiti and additional flights to Hawaii, the Caribbean and Mexico. 
  "We’re adding in flights to places we know customers want to travel to, like outdoor recreation destinations where social distancing is easier, but doing so in a way that’s flexible," said Gupta.
  To add that flexibility, the airline announced it will extend its waiver for change fees and award redeposit fees for reservations through July 31.   
  United has stepped up its plane cleaning procedure and requires all travelers – including crew members – to wear face coverings,  potentially revoking travel privileges  for customers who do not follow these requirements. Passengers who refuses to comply with its mask requirement are placed on an "internal travel restriction list."
 