
  
  USA Gymnastics has announced Tuesday that it will not hold this year’s US Gymnastics Championships, in addition to other events scheduled for 2020.
  According to a statement on its website, the deferred events include the GK US Classic, the US Gymnastics Championships (for women’s and men’s artistic gymnastics) and the USA Gymnastics Championships (for rhythmic gymnastics, trampoline and tumbling, and acrobatic gymnastics).
  USA Gymnastics is in the process of rescheduling events leading up to the Olympic Games in 2021 and plans to announce new dates for Olympic Trials in the coming weeks, the website statement says.
  The US Gymnastics Championships, previously scheduled for June 4-7, 2020, at Dickies Arena in Fort Worth, Texas, will take place in the original venue June 3-6, 2021.
  
  
  A key coronavirus model often cited by the White House has again raised its coronavirus death projection, now predicting 147,000 deaths in the US by August 4.
  That’s an increase of about 10,000 deaths compared to the model’s estimate from this weekend, which was already higher than earlier projections.
  On Sunday, Dr. Christopher Murray, director of the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington, tied the earlier increase to “explosive increases in mobility in a number of states.”
  Compared to Sunday, the model now projects about 2,450 additional deaths in New York, 2,000 additional deaths in Massachusetts and 1,700 additional deaths in Pennsylvania. Other states saw sizable increases as well. North Carolina, for example, is now expected to see about 3,200 more deaths, and Maryland about 1,200 more.
  Some states saw decreases in projected deaths, however, including Georgia, which is now expected to see 1,500 fewer deaths. The model’s projection for Indiana has also gone down by 1,600 deaths.
  On its website, IHME said exact reasons for the changes vary by state. But the institute pointed to “epidemiological indicators and key drivers of viral transmission,” like changes in testing and mobility.
  IHME also pointed to the easing of social distancing policies, but said “the full potential effects of recent actions to ease social distancing policies, especially if robust containment measures have yet to be fully scaled up, may not be fully known for a few weeks due to the time periods between viral exposure, possible infection, and full disease progression.”
  
  Watch here: 
  
  
  
  Washington state is starting a contact tracing program to keep track of the spread of coronavirus as more businesses open up. 
  “This initiative is a transition from one strategy to another," Gov. Jay Inslee said Tuesday afternoon. 
  Inslee said people who test positive for Covid-19 will be contacted by a “professional interviewer” to identify other people who could have been exposed. Those contacts may be asked to test and self-quarantine until they get a negative result.
  He said hundreds of members of the National Guard will be used as part of the contact tracing group, but they will not have law enforcement power to compel people to comply. 
  He added keeping infected people from spreading the virus is the key to getting life back to normal. 
  “This virus doesn't have any legs,” Inslee said. “It can't travel without us.”
  
  
  Tesla CEO Elon Musk defied Alameda County's shelter-in-place orders and reopened a Tesla factory this week amid coronavirus concerns — igniting an ongoing riff between the billionaire and California officials who argue his business operations continue to disregard workers' safety.
  Musk threatened to move his company out of the state and refused to halt operations at the Freemont, California, plant despite countywide orders that only allow essential businesses to operate at this time. Musk also tweeted, "If anyone is arrested, I ask that it only be me."
  "We should be outraged by a billionaire that has gotten so much from its partnership in California, but continues to put workers in unsafe conditions, continues to union bust, continues to wave his finger at California [as if] we're supposed to allow that and let him throw his temper tantrum," Gonzalez said on CNN Tuesday. 
  Gonzalez, a Democrat from San Diego, has remained vocal on social media against Musk's defiance of public health orders. 
  Over the weekend, she shared a colorful and direct message on Twitter: "F*ck Elon Musk"
  On Tuesday, Gonzalez tweeted to her followers: "Who is tired of billionaire companies that get to break labor laws, worker safety standards and stay-at-home orders without accountability while small mom & pop businesses are required to play by the rules?" 
  She followed the message with a raising hand emoji in agreement.
  CNN previously reported county health officials ordered Musk to cease operations at the plant Tuesday. Tesla is also expected to submit a site-specific plan to Alameda County today for review, according to an email sent to the vice president of health and safety at Tesla.
  President Trump also joined the conversation on social media Tuesday tweeting, "California should let Tesla & Elon Musk open the plant, NOW. It can be done Fast & Safely!" 
  Musk replied to the President, "Thank you!"
  
  Watch here: 
  
  
  
  
  Mayor Eric Garcetti said there will be "no radical changes "coming to Los Angeles in the next week or so."
  Garcetti emphasized the plans in Southern California will proceed slowly with reopening so restrictions don’t need to be tightened.
  On schools:  Garcetti said the county needs to be doing about 15,000 tests a day in order to possibly reopen schools in September or August.
  He said it is going to be important to test students multiple times.
  "There's no question we're going to have to have our young people not just testing once and you're good to go to school, but at least weekly if not more frequently to make sure nobody infectious is going to school even if they don't have symptoms," he said.
  In higher education, the California State University system announced plans to cancel nearly all in-person classes through the fall semester to reduce spread of coronavirus earlier today.
  
  Watch here: 
  
  
  
  The NBA has denied speculation that the league is engaging in discussions to host games at centralized locations. 
  On the day MGM Resorts released a reopening plan, NBA spokesperson Mike Bass remained steadfast in denying serious talks have taken place with MGM or other properties to host games. 
  A spokesperson for MGM tells CNN that  “ as far as the NBA is concerned, we don’t comment on rumors or speculation.”
   
  Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti spoke to CNN's Jake Tapper following a report that the county is likely to remain under some sort of stay-at-home order for months. 
  The mayor said he wants to "reassure" residents that this doesn't mean "we'll stay exactly as we are for three more months."
  Garcetti's comments to CNN came after Los Angeles Health Director Barbara Ferrer said “with all certainty,” the stay at home order will be extended another three months. Restrictions will continue to be lifted, while the order remains, Ferrer explained. 
  Los Angeles County’s current order holds until May 15, but the stay-at-home order in California is open-ended.
  Addressing the order, Garcetti explained, "There's no radical changes in the next week coming." 
  He continued:  "That doesn't mean three weeks from now, six weeks from now, two months from now, we won't continuously edit that order and make sure we open up safely as much as we can, and if it gets dangerous, we may need to step back at times as well. I've always told people the hard truths." 
  
  Watch here: 
  
  
  
  The California State University system plans to cancel nearly all in-person classes through the fall semester to reduce spread of coronavirus.
  The CSU system, which comprises 23 universities across the state, will be moving most instruction online, Chancellor Timothy White announced Tuesday at a Board of Trustees meeting. 
  The California State University system is the nation’s largest four-year public university system with a total enrollment of more than 480,000 students, according to the CSU.
  A CSU spokesperson confirmed the plans to CNN and said additional details will be released later today.
  In-person classes at CSU campuses have been canceled since March and have since moved to online only. The CSU has previously announced students applying for admission will not be required to take the SAT or ACT.
  Arkansas has seen a spike of at least 27 cases in St. Francis County, officials said at a press conference today.
  Arkansas Department of Health Director Dr. Nate Smith said that many of the cases may be connected to the federal prison at Forrest City.
  Officials say they are concerned because not all inmates and staff at the prison have been tested and now they are seeing a larger community spread in the county.
  The state has received enough remdesivir to treat 50 patients, which will be distributed by the Arkansas Department of Health, Gov. Asa Hutchinson said.
  By the numbers:  Currently there are 59 people hospitalized in the state. The state is reporting 4,164 cases of coronavirus and 95 deaths.
  
 