US Surgeon General Dr. Jerome Adams urged caution when looking at the US death rate for the virus remaining flat while the number of new cases increases. 
  However, Adams said, "What we're really worried about    — particularly with young people    — is that they get it and then they spread it to their grandmother, to their grandfather." 
  Adams called on the younger population to wear a face covering, practice social distancing when going out this weekend, and to take extra precautions if they live with someone who is older or vulnerable. 
  The latest figures:  According to Johns Hopkins University's tally of cases in the US, at least 128,740   people have died in the country from coronavirus. 
  An ensemble forecast published by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention now projects nearly 148,000 coronavirus deaths in the country by July 25.
  This week’s national forecast relies on 24 individual forecasts from outside institutions and researchers. The new projections, published Thursday, forecast 147,865 deaths by July 25, with a possible range of about 139,000 to 161,000 deaths.
  Unlike some individual models, the CDC’s ensemble forecast only offers projections for the next month. The previous ensemble forecast, published last Wednesday, projected about 139,000 coronavirus deaths by July 18.
  
  Watch Surgeon General's call to wear face coverings: 
  
  
  European Union Home Affairs Commissioner Ylva Johansson has urged European countries to apply “as wide a definition of partnerships as possible” to exempt the “partner or ‘sweetheart’,“ of an EU citizen from EU coronavirus travel restrictions.
  The EU published on Tuesday a  set of guidelines  that allows for the gradual reopening of Europe’s external borders starting July 1.
  The guidelines, which are primarily based on health criteria and preventing a second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, define a “family member” as a spouse, a registered partnership equivalent to marriage, children or dependents under the age of 21 and dependent direct relatives.
  However, there is space for change in the guidelines and specific categories of travelers “may be reviewed by the Council, in close consultation with the Commission,” based on “social and economic considerations as well as the overall assessment of the evolution of the epidemiological situation.” 
  Denmark had already expanded its definition of traveller with a “worthy purpose” to include “boyfriends/girlfriends, fiancées, grandparents and grandchildren, as well as business travel, job interviews,” in the list of those able to journey to the country.
  This is news social media campaigners using the hashtags #LoveIsEssential and #LoveIsNotTourism have welcomed, like German/American boyfriend and girlfriend Eglain and Zuri.
  American Zuri wrote on her social media: “It feels like I woke up to a hopeful miracle. I hope this is step in the right direction for couples separated by this travel ban.”
  Her German boyfriend Eglain also took to social media, writing: “The head of European home affairs is supporting our cause of reuniting binational couples separated by travel bans!” Adding German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas to his tweet, Eglain added, “Now the member states need to act and implement exemptions for us.”
  
  
  
  While most Americans are used to spending the Fourth of July holiday with friends at the beach or by the pool, this year the country is celebrating a little differently.
  The coronavirus pandemic continues and numbers are skyrocketing with the three-most populous states setting  new records  for new daily coronavirus cases. 
  While this doesn't necessarily mean canceling your plans for the day, there are steps you can take to keep yourself and others around you healthy this holiday:
  Heading to a beach or a pool? 
  Planning a barbecue? 
  Read the full article:  
  
  
  The European Commission has granted "conditional marketing authorization" for remdesivir as a treatment for coronavirus infection, Gilead Sciences, the company that makes the Covid-19 drug, announced in a press release on Friday morning.
  The authorization, based on a review of scientific data that dates back to April, means that the drug will be indicated in Europe for the treatment of Covid-19 in adults and adolescents ages 12 and older or weighing at least 40 kilograms, who have pneumonia that requires oxygen support.
  Gilead noted in the release that the conditional marketing authorization is initially valid for one year but can be extended or converted into an unconditional authorization once additional data are submitted and assessed.
  "Ongoing clinical trials continue to evaluate the safety and efficacy of remdesivir, including studies of remdesivir in combination with anti-inflammatory medicines and in special populations including pediatric patients," the press release said. "Research is also being conducted on new, investigational formulations of remdesivir that may enable studies of remdesivir in earlier stages of disease."
  Remember:  Previous  research has shown  separately that severely and moderately ill patients with pneumonia from Covid-19 who received a course of remdesivir were more likely to have clinical improvement after 11 days compared to those who received traditional standard of care alone, according to Gilead.
  In the United States, remdesivir — currently administered intravenously through infusions    — is the only drug that has an emergency use authorization from the US Food and Drug Administration to treat coronavirus infections. Gilead originally studied remdesivir as a potential treatment for Ebola, but lab experiments suggested it might be active against the coronavirus that causes Covid-19.
    
  
  
  Five Americans who flew by private jet to the Mediterranean island of Sardinia were refused entry to Italy on Wednesday due to new  EU travel restrictions  on countries with high coronavirus infection rates, police told CNN.
  The private jet – which took off from Colorado with 11 would-be vacationers on board -- arrived in Cagliari airport on Wednesday morning, according to the Cagliari Police spokesperson.
  Earlier this week, the European Union formally agreed a set of recommendations that allows travelers from outside the bloc to visit EU countries. 
  But the list of 14 countries did  not include the United States , whose current Covid infection rate does not meet the criteria set by the EU for it to be considered a "safe country."
  The five US citizens were traveling with friends from New Zealand, the UK, Germany and Italy. There were also three children on board.
  Italian authorities tried to “find a solution” to the problem of the American travellers, the police spokesperson said, but there was no way around the new decree that came into effect Tuesday.
  After around 14 hours on the ground, the whole group decided to leave Cagliari on their jet ‪ day and headed towards Birmingham, England, the police said.
   
  
  
  Florida is now averaging more new reported Covid-19 cases per day than any other state, according to a CNN analysis of data from Johns Hopkins University.
  Florida's seven-day moving average of new daily cases stood at 7,870 at the end of the day Thursday. California and Texas were not far behind. California is averaging 6,491 new cases reported each day, while the Texas average stands at 6,368.
  The Sunshine State broke its all-time record for new cases reported in one day, with 10,109 reported Thursday. Only one other state has broken that daily record     — New York, in April.
  In all, Florida has recorded 169,106 cases and 3,617 deaths, according to the JHU data.
  Here's a look at how Florida's new cases have progressed over time:  
  As Americans head into a holiday weekend in the  shadow of a ravaging coronavirus pandemic,  some governors are rethinking their stance on face coverings after days of record infections.
  The US reported more than 52,000 new cases of the virus Thursday, a new daily record  surpassing one set the previous day.  At least 36 states are seeing a rise in cases compared to the previous week, with patients rapidly filling hospitals across the South and West.
  California, Arizona, Texas and Florida all posted record new cases this week    — Florida reported more than 10,000 additional coronavirus cases Thursday while Texas had about 8,000.
  Nearly two dozen states have paused their reopenings to combat the spread while others have taken extra measures to keep it out of their borders. New York, New Jersey and Connecticut  issued a travel advisory that requires people arriving from eight states  with high coronavirus rates to quarantine for two weeks.
  Here's a look at where cases are rising across the country:  
  
  
  
  US Surgeon General Dr. Jerome Adams on Friday didn't directly answer when pressed on whether he thinks people should attend large gatherings during Fourth of July celebrations, such as those  hosted by President Trump  in Washington, DC, and at Mount Rushmore. 
  "The most important thing I would say to people is if you do go out to a gathering or in public, please, wear a face covering," Adams told NBC's Craig Melvin. 
  Adams explained wearing a face covering will actually give people more freedom because it will allow more places to stay open. "We'll have less spread of the disease," he said. 
  Adams said he’s not opposed to mask mandates: "I think the most important thing from a health communications point of view is helping people understand how they benefit and why they should do this." 
  
  
  The Myrtle Beach City Council in South Carolina unanimously voted to enact a face mask ordinance ahead of the Fourth of July weekend as the number of coronavirus cases continues to climb. 
  Myrtle Beach city manager John Pedersen  issued the executive order  on Thursday, which requires residents and visitors to wear a cloth face mask at retail and food service establishments as well as in public spaces. 
  Failure to wear a mask when required is a civil infraction with a fine of up to $100 upon conviction. The mask requirement is effective through Labor Day. 
  The city joins other parts of the country that have enacted similar measures in an effort to curb Covid-19's spread. 
  Read more about the latest states requiring people to wear masks: 
 