Get all the latest news on  coronavirus  and more delivered daily to your inbox.  Sign up here . 
  More than 100 additional U.S. sailors aboard a  coronavirus -stricken  aircraft carrier  stuck in  Guam  have tested positive for the virus, the  Navy  said.
  As of Saturday, the Navy said 92 percent of the USS Theodore Roosevelt crew members have been tested for  COVID-19 , with 585 positive and 3,724 negative results.
  The infected sailors on the ship represented about 75 percent of the U.S. Navy's total cases worldwide.
  USO BUOYS USS THEODORE ROOSEVELT CREW AMID COVID-19 CRISIS 
  The Navy said over 3,900 sailors from a crew of roughly 4,800 have been moved ashore in Guam.
  On Thursday, Fox News learned that an American sailor onboard was in an intensive-care unit at a military hospital on the western Pacific island.
  The sailor, who tested positive for COVID-19 last month,  was reportedly found unresponsive while in isolation .
  The aircraft carrier  has been at the center of a controversy  involving its commander,  Capt. Brett Crozier .
  Crozier was relieved of duty after  circulating a memo  to Navy leaders last week that was obtained by news media in which he urged speedy action to evacuate the ship of nearly 5,000 sailors as the coronavirus began to escalate onboard.
  CLICK HERE FOR FULL CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE 
  “Removing the majority of personnel from a deployed U.S. nuclear aircraft carrier and isolating them for two weeks may seem like an extraordinary measure. ... This is a necessary risk,” Crozier wrote. “Keeping over 4,000 young men and women on board the TR is an unnecessary risk and breaks faith with those Sailors entrusted to our care.”
  Acting Navy Secretary Thomas Modly  subsequently resigned  after it emerged he told the crew of the Roosevelt that Crozier was either " too naïve or too stupid " -- or perhaps even deliberately insubordinate -- over  his handling of the outbreak .
  President Trump said last Tuesday that  Modly didn’t have to resign  over speech, but  that he hoped it  would  end the controversy .
  “The whole thing was very unfortunate,” Trump said at a news conference Tuesday night.
  CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP 
  Navy Chief of Naval Operations Adm. Michael Gilday said Thursday that “all options are on the table," and he is  not ruling out reinstating Crozier to his position  after an internal investigation has concluded.
  Fox News' Lucas Tomlinson, Jennifer Griffin and Vandana Rambaran contributed to this report. 
 