Vice President Mike Pence and his wife, Second Lady Karen Pence, have both tested negative for COVID-19, his press secretary announced Saturday night.
  "Pleased to report that the COVID-19 test results came back negative for both Vice President  @Mike_Pence  and Second Lady  @KarenPence ," Katie Miller tweeted.
  Pence earlier Saturday said he will be tested for the coronavirus, after one of his staffers tested positive for the virus earlier this week.
  “While the White House doctor has indicated that he has no reason to believe I was exposed and no need to be tested, given the unique position i have as vice president and as leader of the White House Coronavirus Task Force, both I and my wife will be tested for the coronavirus later this afternoon,” he said at a White House press briefing.
  PENCE STAFFER TESTS POSITIVE FOR CORONAVIRUS, BECOMING FIRST-KNOWN CASE OF A WHITE HOUSE EMPLOYEE 
  Pence’s office said Friday that the unidentified staffer tested positive. Pence said that the staffer is doing well, and had cold-like symptoms for a day and a half and has not been to the White House since Monday.
  He said that neither he nor President Trump had any contact with the staffer, and that they had worked with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the White House. Contact tracing had also been done, he said.
  CLICK HERE FOR COMPLETE CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE 
  Pence was appointed by Trump to lead the White House’s coronavirus task force, which has been holding daily press briefings on the virus.
  A number of politicians have tested positive for the virus. Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart, R-Fla., on Wednesday became the first member of Congress to announce that he was infected. Not long after Diaz-Balart’s announcement, Rep. Ben McAdams, D-Utah, announced that he, too, had tested positive.
  CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP 
  A week ago, Trump took a coronavirus test -- after exposure to infected individuals -- but  said it came back negative .
  The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
 