During a  Saturday news briefing , President Trump fielded a question about the coronavirus timeline. Like most questions relating to the pandemic, this one placed a premium on details, facts and honesty — three areas where the president has repeatedly failed the country. So when he was asked when he first learned that coronavirus was “going to be a problem,” he spouted full paragraphs of spin:
  Bolding added to highlight a suggestion from Trump that the United States could have gotten a heads-up of several months if only Chinese authorities had been more transparent. He doesn’t make this allegation directly, mind you, but rather uses elliptical and confusing Trumpspeak to lay it out.
  Timelines indicate that  China’s mishandling of information on the coronavirus lasted perhaps a few weeks .
  Science magazine noticed the discrepancy. On Sunday evening, it  published an interview  by Jon Cohen with Anthony S. Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. Fauci is the widely admired and much listened-to expert who has been in his position since 1984, advising six presidents along the way. He has taken on HIV/AIDS, Ebola, Zika and many other public health threats.
  All of which is to say that he values factual information in these public health crises, and yet has to stand and listen as Trump sprinkles the daily  coronavirus  briefings with falsehoods and poorly premised optimism. The obvious misery of this setup drove some questions for Fauci:
  It’s hard to imagine a more pointed argument for removing the briefings from their live-TV footing on the major cable-news networks. Fauci himself is conceding that there’s a problem with the information provided by the president without filter to millions of Americans tuning in for the latest on the crisis. Even in the best of circumstances, corrections are difficult to implement on television: The audience that heard the error in the first place will not be the same set of folks that hears the correction. That’s the way misinformation spreads.
  Agents of misinformation don’t share space comfortably with career scientists. That dynamic may explain the entirely predictable circumstance that Trump has grown frustrated with Fauci,  according to the New York Times .
  After President Trump botched his prime-time coronavirus address — in which he touched off a panic over European travel and trade — the Erik Wemple Blog noted that he shouldn’t be allowed on live television. The daily coronavirus briefings are different animals, to be sure. During these sessions, Trump does share the lectern with others — Fauci and coronavirus task force expert Deborah Birx, for example — who know what they’re talking about. Live airing of these briefings, accordingly, disseminates helpful, solid information and misinformation in the same package.
  A solution is at hand. Television networks quite routinely tape comments by public officials, and later incorporate snippets into an edited package for viewers. In the case of Trump’s coronavirus briefings, they can run his claim that he’s a “ smart guy ” and even his attack on NBC News correspondent Peter Alexander — “I’d say you’re a terrible reporter.” But not the consequential, false comments on the life-or-death topic at hand.
  It’s time to edit out the president.
  Read more :
  Erik Wemple: Trump called the media ‘the enemy of the people.’ He means it. 
  Erik Wemple: Trump didn’t need intelligence briefings to appreciate coronavirus. Tucker was on the case! 
  Erik Wemple: ‘I’d say you’re a terrible reporter’: Trump melts down during coronavirus press briefing 
 