Two weeks ago, President Trump  made news  as he opened his daily  coronavirus  briefing: “We’re going to put a hold on money spent to the [World Health Organization],” Trump said. “We’re going to put a very powerful hold on it.”
  But asked 17 minutes later whether the best time to freeze aid to the organization was during a global health pandemic, Trump falsely claimed he had not said what he clearly just said.
  “I mean, I’m not saying I’m going to do it, but we’re going to look at it,” Trump said.
  (One week later, Trump said he  would in fact freeze aid  to the WHO.)
  The WHO denial was one of a half-dozen claims Trump has made amid the coronavirus outbreak that he later falsely claimed he had not said, some of which occurred only  minutes apart . You can watch Trump do this again and again in the video above.
  On Feb. 10, Trump said  the heat in April would kill the coronavirus . On April 3, Trump falsely said he never put a date on when the virus would go away.
  “I didn’t say a date,” Trump said. “I said it’s going away, and it is going away.” 
  On March 24, Trump again downplayed the threat of the coronavirus by  comparing it to the seasonal flu . Two weeks later, Trump falsely said, “I didn’t say two weeks ago it was a flu.”
  On March 27, Trump said he  encouraged Vice President Pence not to call governors  who were critical of the federal coronavirus response. Two days later, he said he never said that.
  “I don’t call the governor of Washington now,” Trump said on March 29. “But Mike Pence calls and the head of FEMA calls. I don’t stop them.” 
  On March 20, Trump said  he hadn’t had to require companies to produce medical supplies  under the Defense Production Act. Six minutes later at the same briefing, Trump said he didn’t say that.
  And three days after saying  New York didn’t need all of the ventilators it was requesting , Trump denied he said that.
  “I didn’t say that, come on. Why don’t you act in a little more positive?” Trump said on March 29 when asked about his previous ventilator comments. “It’s always trying to ‘get you.’”
  Less than three weeks later, Trump touted the comments he previously denied making.
  “[New York Gov. Andrew] Cuomo ridiculously wanted ’40 thousand Ventilators,’” Trump  tweeted  on April 17. “We gave him a small fraction of that number, and it was plenty.” 
 