The White House held its latest  coronavirus task force  briefing Wednesday.
  Here’s what we learned.
  President Trump has said repeatedly in recent days that we should be able to get past the virus “sooner rather than later” or “sooner than people think.” 
  “We’ll be sitting down with the professionals,” Trump said. “We’ll be sitting down with many different people and making a determination. And those meetings will start taking place fairly soon.” 
  But when asked about the process for reopening the economy, he indicated he’ll be deferential to his medical experts.
  “I would rely very heavily on them,” he said.
  He added: “We don’t want to go down — and then we can start going up if we’re not careful. So we have to be careful as far as distancing, social distancing and other things.” 
  Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has arguably been more forceful than anybody in the administration when it comes to  blaming China  for the scale of the novel coronavirus outbreak and for a lack of transparency.
  But when asked what should be done about it at Wednesday’s briefing, he said now is not the time to discuss that.
  “This is not the time for retribution, but it is still the time for clarity and transparency,” Pompeo said. “We’re still working on this problem and there’s still data that these good people need so that they can perform their analysis of how to both develop therapeutics and a vaccine and to understand where this virus is. So every country — China included — every country needs to be transparent about what’s gone on in their country.” 
  Pompeo was also given a chance to weigh in on what should be done about the  World Health Organization, which Trump attacked  extensively Tuesday. Pompeo, who earlier reaffirmed the United States is “reevaluating” its funding, declined to say whether WHO leadership should change.
  “This is not the time to be doing that kind of change,” he said. “There’ll be a lot of time to look back and see how the World Health Organization performed.” 
  Trump continued his broadside against the WHO, noting it criticized his travel restrictions against China and claiming it had said in mid-January that there was no human-to-human transmission of the coronavirus. In fact, though, the WHO said at the time that there was “ no clear evidence ” yet of human-to-human transmission.
  Lead task force health experts Anthony S. Fauci and Deborah Birx both rejected an  increasingly popular theory  on Fox News and elsewhere that the number of coronavirus deaths is being inflated because people who are infected are actually dying of other things.
  The theory has been promoted by Fox’s Tucker Carlson and Brit Hume and was a subject of a panel discussion on the network on Wednesday afternoon.
  Birx was clear that if people have an underlying condition, it is exacerbated by the virus that causes the disease covid-19.
  “ So those individuals will have an underlying condition, but that underlying condition did not cause their acute death when it's related to a covid infection,” she said. “In fact, it's the opposite.” 
  Fauci then weighed in, warning against such “conspiracy theories.” 
  “You will always have conspiracy theories when you have a very challenging public health crises. They are nothing but distractions,” he said, adding: “I would just hope we just put those conspiracy stuff — and let somebody write a book about it later on. But not now.” 
  Trump said Tuesday he hadn’t seen in real time the memos written by White House trade adviser Peter Navarro in January and February  offering dire predictions about the coronavirus , as Trump was downplaying the threat.
  But he was asked Wednesday whether he was briefed on their contents, and he was less definitive.
  “I don’t remember that,” Trump said. “I’ve now seen the memo. I saw it. Peter sends a lot of memos. I didn’t see the memo. … But no, I didn’t see the memo at the time, but I have seen it since.” 
  Pompeo began the briefing by announcing an effort to repatriate Americans from overseas that he said was on a scale “without parallel in our lifetime.” He said the State Department has brought back more than 50,000 people from more than 90 countries since the outbreak began.
  Pompeo said there were several thousand people whom the State Department is still working to repatriate. He emphasized many of them were are away from airports, so it wasn’t just a matter of finding flights for them.
  “We’re working on it,” Pompeo said. “We chip away at it every day.” 
  Pompeo emphasized that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention continues to help other countries as well, so we can get the “global economy” back on track.
  
  
  
  
 