Reporter:  “Doctor [Anthony] Fauci said earlier this week that the lag in testing was, in fact, ‘a failing.’ Do you take responsibility for that?” 
  President Trump:  “No, I don’t take responsibility at all, because we were given a set of circumstances and we were given rules, regulations, and specifications from a different time.” 
  — Exchange at  a news conference , March 13, 2020 
  Trump’s response to this question during a coronavirus news conference generated a lot of attention, in part because Trump, as a private citizen, had made it clear he believed whatever happened on a leader’s watch was his responsibility:
  Former vice president Joe Biden’s Democratic presidential primary campaign two days later  tweeted out a video  that included the exchange at the news conference, framed around the question of presidential leadership. It includes a brief clip of Fauci, who runs the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, saying: “It is a failing, let’s admit it.”
  The implication was that Fauci was referring to the “lag in testing,” as the reporter had framed the question. But is that what Fauci was talking about?
  A major issue in the U.S. government’s response to the outbreak of a novel coronavirus has been the availability of tests for people who believe they may have covid-19. The administration has been under fire for its failure to quickly expand testing for  coronavirus  across the United States. A still-unspecified manufacturing problem caused the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to distribute flawed tests to state and local health departments. The lack of tests, compared with countries such as South Korea that have tested tens of thousands of people, has meant the spread of the virus in the United States may have been hidden in the early weeks of the outbreak.
  From mid-January until Feb. 28, fewer than 4,000 tests from the CDC were used out of more than 160,000 produced,  The Washington Post reported . “In South Korea,  more than 66,650 people  were tested within a week of its first case of community transmission, and it quickly became able to test 10,000 people a day,”  the Atlantic reported  on March 7. “The United Kingdom, which has only 115 positive cases, has  so far tested 18,083 people  for the virus.”
  Community transmission means someone is infected even though they have not been in contact with someone who had traveled abroad. The first such case in the United States was reported on Feb. 28. Even as of March 17,  according to the New York Times , about 125 people per million have been tested in the United States, far fewer than many other countries. By contrast, Italy has tested more than 2,000 per million and South Korea more than 5,000 per million.
  On March 12, the day before the news conference, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.)  at a congressional hearing  asked U.S. officials to identify the person in charge of “making sure there were enough tests [so] as many people as possible across this country have access to getting tested as soon as possible.” Robert Redfield, the director of the CDC, had trouble answering the question so Fauci stepped in.
  Later that day, in an interview with ABC News, Fauci was asked who was responsible.
  Fauci emphasized this point at the news conference when Trump was asked if he was responsible — and Trump said he was not.
  On March 17, in  an interview on the Hugh Hewitt radio talk show , Fauci again was asked about the testing breakdown at the CDC. (Hewitt is a Washington Post opinion columnist.)
  As you can see, there are two things going on here. The CDC had a testing breakdown because of a flawed test. At the same time, the administration did not move quickly to get the private sector involved — that is the failure that Fauci referred to in his congressional testimony, not the production failure that happened with the test. Fauci went on to tell Hewitt that the test-production failure “has nothing to do with anybody’s fault, certainly not the president’s fault.”
  But it’s worth noting that getting the private sector involved was flagged as an urgent issue by two former Trump administration officials in  a Jan. 28 opinion article  in the Wall Street Journal, titled “Act Now to Prevent an American Epidemic.” Just five days earlier, China had shut down the city of Wuhan to stem the outbreak.
  “If the number of cases increases, experience from the 2009 swine flu pandemic and the 2015 Zika epidemic suggests that the CDC will struggle to keep up with the volume of screening,” wrote Luciana Borio, who had been Trump’s director for medical and biodefense preparedness policy at the National Security Council, and Scott Gottlieb, who had been Trump’s commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration. “Government should focus on working with private industry to develop easy-to-use, rapid diagnostic tests that can be made available to providers.”
  Not until a month later, on Feb. 29, did  the FDA loosen the rules  to allow more labs to apply for approval to conduct covid-19 testing. Labs have  complained  about other bureaucratic hurdles imposed by the FDA and CDC that slowed down the development of tests.
  Fauci has repeatedly tried to clarify he was speaking about a failure to get the private sector involved sooner, not the flawed tests distributed by the CDC. But his “failing” quote keeps getting cited indiscriminately.
  Few would argue that a president is responsible for a manufacturing glitch. Fauci has also said no one is responsible for designing a “good system” for a testing protocol that proved not up to the task posed by the novel coronavirus.
  But a president is supposed to manage the government’s response to a crisis — with language that signals to government workers the path forward.
  Trump had spent weeks  playing down the seriousness of the coronavirus pandemic , even as other nations experienced a surge in cases. Such messages resonate through the government bureaucracy. Would consistent presidential messaging about a global threat to Americans have moved things faster? It’s impossible to know.
  But as Trump once tweeted, leadership means “whatever happens, you’re responsible. If it doesn’t happen, you’re responsible.”
  ( About our rating scale )
  Send us facts to check by filling out  this form 
  Sign up for The Fact Checker  weekly newsletter 
  The Fact Checker is a verified  signatory to the International Fact-Checking Network code of principles 
 