The global coronavirus outbreak  dominated headlines  this week as it  entered the political debate  and sent markets tumbling. In response, Americans did what we always do when confronted with something new, big and scary: We dumped our anxieties into the nearest Google search bar.
  Below are a number of charts illustrating search terms that saw big jumps this week, which give a sense of our collective coronavirus-related worries, as well as a few hopes.
  One important caveat about Google Trends data: It doesn’t reveal exactly how many people are searching for a given term, it just gives a sense of whether that term has risen or fallen in popularity. So to approximate absolute search volume, presumably popular search terms like “Donald Trump” and “Kim Kardashian,” will serve as guideposts.
  First let’s set the lay of the land: Searches for “coronavirus” increased roughly sevenfold over the course of the week. You can tell that many, many people are interested because  searches for the virus far surpassed those for “Donald Trump,”  who is usually the main driver of news in a given week. Searches really started taking off on Tuesday and continued to rise Wednesday as Trump held a news conference on the virus.
  Related terms like “coronavirus symptoms” saw similar jumps in popularity.
  The popular disinfectant had a big week as people  stocked up on household cleaning products  in preparation for the disease making its way to the United States.  Clorox  and  Purell  also had a big week in search.
  Though Lysol is not currently as popular as Trump, it has  surpassed Kim Kardashian  as of this writing — something that has  not previously happened in the search data history  and a sign that there is a considerable amount of interest in the product.
  As experts  began to recommend stocking up on certain household products , searches for terms like “perishable foods” saw a rise in popularity. Related terms like  “prepping” and “survivalism”  also got a boost.
  Overall, however, these searches  all remain well under the Kardashian threshold , suggesting that Americans aren’t ready to  bug out  en masse just yet.
  This is a term that we might start hearing more of if experts begin talking about coronavirus in terms of  mitigation, rather than containment . It refers to practices people can use to keep other people at a literal distance to minimize their risk of passing on or contracting an infectious disease.
  The term  encompasses  school closures, encouraging telework or canceling large events. While the search term has spiked in the past week, in absolute terms the Kardashian and Trump comparisons suggest interest remains fairly low.
  Speaking of social distancing, people are trying to figure out whether they need to cancel travel plans. The search data shows that trips to Italy are of particular concern, given the scope of the coronavirus outbreak there. But so far this search has reached only  one-ninth of a Kardashian  in terms of popularity.
  A lesser-known county in the San Francisco Bay area had explosive growth, driven by news that the first confirmed U.S. coronavirus case with  no known links to other sick patients  was discovered there. Solano County  raced past Kardashian on Wednesday , when the news first broke, and has maintained relative parity with Kardashian searches since then.
  This is an odd one — searches for “carnivorous” briefly breached the Kardashian threshold on Wednesday. That day, the Daily Mail  published an article  critical of the animal rights group People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, which several days prior had  published a tweet  pointing out that “coronavirus” and “carnivorous” are anagrams of each other. The tweet was widely mocked online.
  However, that fact doesn’t explain the concomitant rise in a related search: “ carnivorous symptoms .” Presumably the people searching for information related to the Daily Mail story would know that “carnivorous” is not the actual name of the virus. Both terms dropped off rapidly on Thursday.
  Some people are looking for information on how the disease might affect their pets. This phenomenon has been spurred largely by  reports that a dog in China  tested positive for the disease, although at the moment it’s unclear whether a dog can even become infected.
  People are also growing concerned about coronavirus implications for  cats  and  cows , though the absolute volume of these searches appears to be very low.
  This stems from a  two-year-old visual from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , which went viral this week despite  not having anything to do with  the coronavirus. The visual was created to illustrate how different types of facial hair would break the seal of certain types of respirators.
  Here’s the thing, though: While  interest in “beards” rose, searches for “shaving” actually declined , suggesting that American men aren’t worried enough about respirator compatibility to change their grooming habits.
  Not all coronavirus-related searches are seeking to soothe an anxiety. The 2011 Steven Soderbergh film “Contagion” is enjoying a renaissance in the coronavirus era, as are other virus-related movies like “ Outbreak .”
  Some people are, in fact, looking for opportunity in the epidemic: As the stock market has tanked, investors are looking for stocks that might be expected to do well in the event of a stateside outbreak.
  “Netflix stock,” for instance, was a big search this week under the assumption that people forced to stay home from school or work would be in need of entertainment. People searched for “Zoom stock” in the hopes that videoconferencing services would  see a boost from the epidemic , and for “3M stock” under the assumption that the virus would be good for  makers of personal protective gear .
  All three stocks approached Kardashian levels as the week came to a close.
 