Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox.  Sign up here . 
  The nation's economy could begin showing signs of life after weeks under quarantine as dozens of states have signaled that they are open for business - or at least to an extent.
  President Trump  announced a plan on April 16 to reopen the country  in three phases, based on the severity of the outbreak in each state or region.
  Several states heard Trump's words and have started to outline how and when they will reopen after more than a month of lockdown measures designed to combat the  coronavirus  pandemic.
  CLICK HERE FOR FULL CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE 
  Initial phases call for states to maintain many of the current measures such as social distancing, avoiding gatherings of more than 10 people and avoiding unnecessary travel. Subsequent phases will ease each of these measures. 
  Ultimately, the governor of each state will decide when is best to reopen. As such, here are the states that have already confirmed that they plan to reopen, and when they plan to do so. 
  *Note: This list includes only those states that have so far indicated they are pushing forward with plans to begin reopening. 
  *Note: All unemployment numbers are taken from the  United States Department of Labor Statistics . 
  ALABAMA 
  Population:  About 4.9 million
  Unemployment:  3.5%
  While the state only  issued a stay-at-home order on April 4 , Alabama has remained optimistic that it will be able to resume business and reopen by May 1.
  Gov. Kay Ivey plans to reopen the state in phases, hoping to maintain social distancing needs while easing restrictions that will allow businesses to start up again.
  ALASKA 
  Population:  about 731,500
  Unemployment:  5.6%
  Gov. Mike Dunleavy  issued a stay-at-home order on March 28 , but the order expired on April 21. The following day, Dunleavy  issued a series of 17 health mandates  that set out the guidelines for how the state would proceed to reopen, effective April 24.
  "Reopening Alaska’s businesses is vital to the state’s economic well-being, and to the ability of Alaskans to provide for their families," the order reads. "At the same time, everyone shares in the obligation to keep Alaska safe and continue to combat the spread of COVID-19. As a result, businesses and employees must, to the extent reasonably feasible, continue to take reasonable care to protect their staff and operations during this pandemic."
  The mandates  allow for retail businesses to resume operations , provided that occupancy does not exceed more than 20 customers, or 25% maximum building occupancy as required by law and employees and shoppers wear fabric face coverings, among other measures.
  Personal care services have resumed , with reservations only and limiting patrons to no more than ten. Personal services include hair salons, spas, barber shops and tattoo parlors, among others.
  Outdoor activity  may resume only in the daytime and with significant restrictions , such as limits on gatherings to 20 people or less and non-household members must maintain strict social distancing.
  Alaska has released perhaps the most widespread plan, but it still retains rigorous attention to social distancing and healthcare protocols.
  ARIZONA 
  Population:  About 7.3 million
  Unemployment:  5.5%
  Gov. Doug Ducey issued a "stay-at-home" order on March 31 and has remained optimistic that Arizona will be able to resume business at the end of the month.
  “What’s happening here is what’s different than what’s happening in New York state and we hope we don’t get there but we’re preparing just in case," Ducey said on April 14  during a radio interview  with KTAR News.
  He also said in a tweet that he wants "to get the economy moving and people back to work as soon as possible — when it is safe and healthy for people to do so."
  Arizona Department of Health Services Assitant Director Jessica Rigler said that the state would need to meet certain standards before properly reopening.
  “We’d like to see a continued decrease in the rate of positive cases as well as hospitalizations … associated with COVID-19,” Rigler said in  an interview on A pril 15. 
  Ducey signed  an executive order on April 22  that allowed hospitals to resume elective surgeries starting May 1. Hospitals and dental offices may resume elective services provided they have 14 days-worth of PPE and can ensure social distancing protocols, among other measures.
  ARKANSAS 
  Population:  About 3 million
  Unemployment:  4.8%
  Arkansas has not issued any stay-at-home orders, but Gov. Asa Hutchinson has taken  other measures to slow the pandemic in his state .
  Schools will remain closed for the rest of the academic term, as will certain public spaces - including gyms, bars and restaurants. However, Hutchinson has said that he intends to explore resuming elective surgeries.
  "We want to get (hospitals) back to doing the important health-care delivery that is important in our communities," Hutchinson said during a press conference on April 16.
  COLORADO 
  Population:  About 5.8 million
  Unemployment:  4.5%
  Gov. Jared Polis issued a statewide "stay-at-home" order on March 26 and  extended it on April 9  following an increase in confirmed cases and deaths.
  Polis remains optimistic that he can ease restrictions on April 26, when the state's "stay-at-home" order is set to expire. Instead,  the state will embrace a "safer at home" approach , which advises but does not require citizens to stay at home unless it is necessary to leave their home.
  According to FOX 31 , the governor said the state will focus on six principles: work to suppress the virus, increased ability to conduct testing and containment, additional protections for those most at risk, ability to handle increased demand, social distancing policies that can be sustainable and ongoing evaluation of policies and their impact.
  The governor insisted that the rollback would be slow, with businesses potentially dividing workers into shifts or constructing barriers between employees.
  “We want to dispel any notion that we can immediately go back to the way things were in January or February, because the virus will be with us,” Polis said.
  “To prevent going right back where we where a month ago, in terms of a large surge in demand for care, we need to be able to jump quickly on new cases and isolate them,” said Dr. Glen Mays, the chair of the Department of Health Systems, Management and Policy at the University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus. "That means testing.”
  FLORIDA 
  Population:  About 21.5 million
  Unemployment:  4.3%
  Gov. Ron DeSantis signed a stay-at-home order on April 1, and he has shown no indication that he will extend it beyond its original April 30 expiration.
  DeSantis is set to announce a task force that will examine how to reopen the state, prioritizing access to rapid testing for small businesses. He has also discussed  possibly reopening schools  in May, should conditions allow it.
  "There has to be an easy way for somebody, if you have a small business you have 20 employees and someone has symptoms, to be able to go get a test and get an answer in a reasonable amount of time," DeSantis said  at a press conference on A pril 15 .
  "So we're working on what that would look like, we've got folks working on a committee to see what we can do to make this testing more prevalent."
  On April 17, Jacksonville took steps "towards normalcy" by  restoring public access to the beaches effective as of 5 P.M . Mayor Lenny Curry reiterated the need to maintain social distancing even while participating in the "essential" recreation.
  “This can be the beginning of the pathway back to normal life,” Mayor Lenny Curry said. “Please respect and follow these limitations. Stay within the guidelines for your safety as well as for the safety of your neighbors.”
  GEORGIA 
  Population:  10.6 million
  Unemployment:  3.2%
  Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp on Monday rolled out aggressive plans to reopen the state's economy, saying many businesses shuttered to mitigate the spread of the coronavirus may reopen their doors as early as Friday.
  Kemp announced that gyms, hair salons, bowling alleys and tattoo parlors are among businesses that may reopen on April 24 — as long as owners follow strict social distancing and hygiene requirements. By April 27, movie theaters may resume selling tickets and restaurants limited to takeout orders can go back to limited dine-in service.
  "In the same way that we carefully closed businesses and urged operations to end to mitigate the virus's spread, today we're announcing plans to incrementally and safely reopen sectors of our economy," Kemp said. 
  Kemp has faced considerable backlash for his decision to reopen so early, with even President Trump criticizing the decision.
  “I want him to do what he thinks is right,” Trump said on Wednesday during his daily coronavirus press briefing. “But I disagree with him on what he is doing …I think it’s too soon.”
  IDAHO 
  Population:  About 1.8 million
  Unemployment:  2.6%
  Gov. Brad Little  extended his state's "stay-at-home" order to end on April 30 , but he also added notable exceptions to the order, allowing curbside and delivery service to resume.
  “Idaho will be better positioned for a strong economic comeback because we are making difficult changes in how we live and work in the short-term,” Little said.
  “The statewide stay-home order is working to flatten the curve and slow the spread of coronavirus in Idaho, but the science tells us if you don’t time these measures right then we could worsen the outcome for citizens’ health and the economy weeks or months down the road.” 
  Little also said “non-essential” businesses should prepare to reopen after April 30 as long as they prepare operational plans over the next two weeks to maintain social distancing for staff and patrons; provide adequate sanitation and protective coverings for employees, vendors, and patrons; offer curbside and pickup delivery; limit number of people in business at a time; and direct flow of people in the operation.
  INDIANA 
  Population:  About 6.7 million
  Unemployment:  3.2%
  Gov. Eric Holcomb indicated on April 16 that the state will look to try and reopen the economy in early May.
  Holcomb said officials are “looking at the numbers … we want to see these numbers hold.”
  While he said he wants to hit the ground running, Holcomb acknowledged that it won't be a quick process.
  “It’ll be methodical, data driven, rolling, gradual, incremental process. It won’t go 0 to 100, not like flipping a light switch...we didn't arrive overnight and we won't get out of the woods overnight," he said.
  Holcomb  extended his state's "stay-at-home" order until May 1 , but he eased restrictions in a few areas: most notably, hospitals can start to perform elective surgeries again.
  Additionally, the order allows for outdoor activities, provided citizens "comply with social distancing requirments." Outdoor acitvities include walking, hiking, running or biking in public parks and open outdoor recreation activities.
  IOWA 
  Population:  About 3.2 million
  Unemployment:  3.7%
  While Gov. Kim Reynolds did not issue a "stay-at-home" order for her state, she did declare a state of emergency, closing all non-essential business until April 30.
  During an interview with  Radio Iowa , Reynolds said, “That’s not going to be beneficial for anybody. We don’t want to open things up, only to say in a week: ‘We’ve got [to] shut it back down.'”
  “Everybody should be making plans because at some point, you know, as we base the decisions based on data, we want to open up this economy.”
  Reynolds indicated that she is looking at May to start reopening the economy. On April 24, Reynolds  took the first steps towards reopening the state  by announcing that hospitals will resume elective surgeries in a phased approach.
  The state will also allow limited operations for farmer's markets starting the following Monday.
  KANSAS 
  Population:  About 2.9 million
  Unemployment:  3.1%
  Gov. Laura Kelly has extended her state's "stay-at-home" order, but she is pressing ahead with talks to reopen the economy.
  Initially set to expire on April 19, Kansas will now remain in lockdown until May 3.
  According to her statement , Kelly "will consult with business leaders, health experts, economists and other industry and community leaders to determine the best path forward beyond that point, and re-open the Kansas economy safely and effectively."
  Kelly also identified specific measures that would need to be in place to help reopen businesses, including "rapid testing, contact tracing, and isolation efforts."
  MINNESOTA 
  Population:  Around 5.6 million
  Unemployment:  3.1%
  Gov. Tim Walz on April 17  eased restrictions on recreational activities , taking first steps toward easing wider restrictions.
  The new order reopens a wide range of locations, including golf courses, hiking trails, public docks, boat and vehicle repair shops, outdoor shooting ranges, and bait shops. The order specifies that campgrounds and dispersed camping, outdoor recreational equipment retail stores, recreational equipment rental, charter boats, launches, and guided fishing remain closed.
  Walz extended his state's "stay-at-home" order until May 4. When he extended the order, he cited the necessity of remaining vigilant.
  “We cannot rest easy,” Walz said, speaking from the State Emergency Operations Center in St. Paul. “This thing can explode overnight if you don’t take the proper precautions.”
  MISSISSIPPI 
  Population:  About 3 million
  Unemployment:  5.3%
  Gov. Tate Reeves is eager to return to business as usual, but he extended the state's "shelter-in-place" order by a week.
  "I want it to end as quickly as possible," Reeves said  in a livestream  on April 17. "The curve is flattening. We are at the worst, hardest, most difficult point in the curve."
  The order, originally set to expire on April 20, will now expire closer to the federally suggested timeline. Reeves extended the order after determining that the state currently falls short of the standard outlined in President Trump's plan.
  Reeve reiterated his desire to return to normal, citing heavy financial burdens and increasing concerns in the face of rising unemployment.
  "One more week of vigilance," Reeves pleaded. "It has to work for one more week, and then we can reopen our state."
  MISSOURI 
  Population:  About 9.9 million
  Unemployment:  4.5%
  Gov. Mike Parson has announced that he will look to take a 'phased approach' to reopen his state.
  Parson extended his state's "stay-at-home" order to May 3, though  NPR notes  that many cities in the state will maintain their local measures for longer.
  "I think you could see that in the next several weeks, we'll have a phased approach," Gov. Parson said in an interview on April 15. "We'll probably open the state up for economics, probably different areas of the state at different times."
  According to KTVO , Parson outlined two phases for reopening the state. These phases involve multiple steps that take into consideration the state's "data-driven approach."
  MONTANA 
  Population:  About 1.1 million
  Unemployment:  3.5%
  Gov. Steve Bullock initially extended the state's "stay-at-home" order until April 24. Bullock then released a plan for a phased reopening of the state  that will go into effect starting April 26 .
  Gallatin City-County Health Department announced that  they believe the county is flattening the curve .
  "We’re committed to reopening as soon as we can,” said health officer Matt Kelley. “We're also committed to a way we can stay open. Businesses are coming up with ideas where they would open up at a fraction of their capacity. We want to avoid the situation where we have a really rapid increase in cases."
  In a tele-town hall, Bullock said following state guidelines will allow the state to resume business "sooner rather than later."
  Starting April 26, places of worship can resume services, and individuals will no longer be required to shelter in place. Starting the next day, business can resume operations as well, provided they maintain social distancing protocols while in operation.
  Businesses where groups gather without the ability to socially distance including movie theaters, gyms, and other places of assembly remain closed. The order also allows "all schools will have the option to return to in-classroom teaching delivery at the discretion of local school boards" starting May 7.
  The phased plan expressly "does not prohibit more restrictive local ordinances, and encourages local officials to work regionally and make local adjustments as local needs demand."
  NEVADA 
  Population:  About 3.1 million
  Unemployment:  6.3%
  Gov. Steve Sisolak said on April 16 that the state is  preparing a plan  to reopen after a month of closures.
  “As your governor, I assure you we're working on the strongest plan possible to reopen our business and our communities, one that will focus on putting the health and safety of Nevadans first and sets us up for a strong economic recovery,” Sisolak said.
  During a press conference, Sisolak stated that no clear date has been determined, but that they will last until at least the current deadline of April 30.  Sisolak extended the order from its original deadline at the beginning of April.
  “If we reopen and we’re not ready with the best plan possible, all the incredible work you’ve done will have been wasted and will run the risk of hurting our economy even more,” Sisolak said. “As soon as we finalize our state-specific plan to reopen, I will be right here, telling you exactly how we are going to do it.”
  Sisolak faces pressure from within the state to reopen sooner rather than later. On April 15, Las Vegas Mayor Carolyn Goodman pleaded with the governor to allow the city to start working again.
  "For heaven's sake, being closed is killing us already and killing Las Vegas, our industry, our convention and tourism business that we have all worked so hard to build," Goodman said during a city council meeting. "The longer we wait to do this, the more impossible it will become to recover."
  NORTH DAKOTA 
  Population:  About 762,000
  Unemployment:  2.2%
  Earlier this week, Gov. Doug Burgum extended restrictions on certain businesses. The new deadline is set on April 30, which the governor noted is in line with the President’s Coronavirus Guidelines for America.
  “We’re doing this to protect the health and safety of business owners, their employees, and their customers,” Burgum said.
  North Dakota is  one of the few states to not issue a stay-at-home order , though the governor has issued a number of measures, including social distancing, school closures, and business restrictions.
  Burgum's statement outlined that the state will only reopen next month if the state can achieve "robust" testing and contact tracing, as well as measures for additional waves or resurgence such as sufficient hospital capacity and adequate PPE availability.
  OHIO 
  Population:  About 11.7 million
  Unemployment:  3.1%
  Gov.  Mike DeWine  reiterated on April 16 that  the state plans to reopen on May 1 .
  “Ohioans have done a great job, a phenomenal job, fighting back, staying home, ensuring physical distancing. We’ve been doing all the things that needed to be done. I’ve never been prouder to be an Ohioan and I’m very grateful for what you have done. You have flattened the curve,” DeWine said.
  The initial stay-at-home order, issued on March 22, was  extended from its original expiration on April 4  until the end of the month, but the governor indicates that there are bigger issues at stake.
  DeWine's statement insists that the plan will be "fact-driven" and guided by an economic board led by Lt. Gov. Jon Husted.
  OKLAHOMA 
  Population:  About 4 million
  Unemployment:  3.1%
  Gov. Kevin Stitt believes that the state can look to reopen at the end of the month.
  Stitt revealed during an interview with KRMG that he plans to start a "methodical" opening of the state starting May 1,  according to a report by Tulsa World .
  “We’re going to make data-driven decisions based on what’s right for Oklahomans,” Stitt said.
  “We like kind of a phased-in approach,” Stitt said, adding that he is confident that in the state's ability to test and control hotspots.
  While non-essential businesses will remain closed until April 30, Stitt announced that  elective surgeries will resume on April 24 . He also  extended a "safer at home" order for citizens over 65 , now set to expire on May 4.
  PENNSYLVANIA 
  Population:  About 12.8 million
  Unemployment:  6.0%
  Gov. Tom Wolf said he is weighing the  possibility of reopening parts of the state that were minimally affected by the coronavirus pandemic in early May .
  He told reporters there is “not one size that fits all” when it comes to reopening a state amid the pandemic and that some businesses could open as early as May 8.
  “We can start to reopen the state in, I think, some areas (in) a fairly robust way, in other areas less so,” Wolf said.
  The Democrat governor placed the state under a stay-at-home order on April 1, expanding the measures he began imposing on individual counties since March 23. The order is set to expire by May 8.
  Nearly 30 percent of the state’s COVID-19 cases are concentrated in its biggest city,  Philadelphia , with more than 10,000 cases alone.
  The state has recorded more than 35,225 positive cases of coronavirus and more than 1,600 people have died.
  That said, health officials in the state said Pennsylvania is making progress toward flattening the curve, in large part due to the stay-at-home order and social distancing restrictions in place.
  Meanwhile, protests against the governor’s orders have spurred up in the state. The  streets of Harrisburg were lined with hundreds of demonstrators on April 20 . Many were seen standing close to each other and not wearing masks.
  Some carried American and “Make America Great Again” flags, while others held signs that read “Open Pennsylvania Now.”
  RHODE ISLAND 
  Population:  around 1 million
  Unemployment:  4.6%
  On April 20, Gov. Gina Raimondo announced that when the state's shelter in place order expires on May 8, she will look to ease restrictions within the state.
  “We will get everyone back to work,” Raimondo said. “But we have to be honest that we face some headwinds that other states don’t have.”
  While she is eager to reopen the state, Raimondo acknowledged that the state has a dense population that will require a careful, phased plan.  The Boston Globe notes  that other such restrictions include a high proportion of low-skill workers who are struggling and a high number of small businesses that lack the capability to work remotely.
  Raimondo has targeted open access to state parks and beaches as the first phase of her plan.
  “It is really my hope is that between now and May 8, we will start to see a decline in the rate of infection so that shortly thereafter we can start to loosen some of these restrictions," she said.
  SOUTH CAROLINA 
  Population:  About 5.1 million
  Unemployment:  2.6%
  Gov. Henry McMaster on April 20 allowed businesses previously deemed nonessential -- department stores, flea markets, florists, bookstores and music shops -- to reopen their doors.
  South Carolina had stopped short of a full lockdown, instead issuing a "work from home" advisory on April 6.
  McMaster's loosening of restrictions started when he  ordered public boat ramps open  effective noon on April 17.
  “That is our goal: to remove those restrictions as quickly as we can,” McMaster said. “We were right at the top of our game and growing and we want to get back there."
  SOUTH DAKOTA 
  Population:  About 885,000
  Unemployment:  3.3%
  Gov.  Kristi Noem  has been the most outspoken opponent of extreme lockdown measures, resisting calls to issue any "stay-at-home" orders for her state.
  Noem has spent the past week fiercely defending her position. She appeared on " The Ingraham Angle " on April 16 to explain her decisions.
  "I took an oath when I was in Congress obviously to uphold the Constitution of the United States," she continued. "I believe in our freedoms and liberties. What I’ve seen across the country is so many people give up their liberties for just a little bit of security and they don’t have to do that."
  “The people of South Dakota can be trusted to make good decisions. We have common sense. That’s why people want to live here and that’s why I love living here.”
  South Dakota has struggled with a hotspot in a pork harvesting plant, forcing Noem to close down the facility. She is hoping to reopen the facility by next week.
  TENNESSEE 
  Population:  About 6.8 million
  Unemployment:  3.5%
  Gov. Bill Lee issued a "stay-at-home" order for his state on March 30, later extending it until April 30. He confirmed on April 20 that it would not be extended.
  Lee was working with the "Big Four" mayors of his state to develop the plan that will allow the state to reopen,  The Tennessean  reported.
  “Thanks to the cooperation of our residents, we have seen success in ‘flattening the curve’ in our communities, but we know that our economies cannot remain closed indefinitely," said Indya Kincannon, the mayor of Knoxville. "The members of this Task Force will help us implement responsible, data-driven strategies to protect the public and ensure that our partners in the business community can operate."
  Subsequently, Lee announced that the "majority" of businesses will be allowed to resume starting May 1. On April 24, Lee issued  guidelines for restaurants and retail stores to reopen , most notably that restaurants will be allowed to operate at 50% capacity.
  “Like the rest of the country, Tennessee has taken an unprecedented economic hit with families and small businesses feeling the most pain,” Lee said. “We must stay vigilant as a state, continue to practice social distancing, and engage in best practices at our businesses so that we can stay open.”
  TEXAS 
  Population:  About 29 million
  Unemployment:  4.7%
  Gov. Greg Abbott announced a number of measures on April 17 that will see the state easing restrictions across the following week.
  On April 20, Texas parks will be open for recreational activity, as long as citizens wear face masks and maintain social distancing. Additionally, no groups larger than 5 people will be allowed to congregate.
  Subsequent measures - effective April 22 and 24, respectively - will allow hospitals to resume elective surgeries and stores to start "retail to go" services.
  "We have shown that Texas can continue our efforts to contain COVID-19 while also adopting safe standards that will allow us to begin the process of reopening Texas,” Abbot said in a statement. 
  Abbott also announced the establishment of a Strike Force to Open Texas – a team of nationally recognized medical experts as well as private and public leaders who will advise the Governor on safely and strategically reopening the state. 
  Abbott first issued an order telling Texans to stay at home, but he never accepted that it was a “stay-at-home” lockdown in the same manner as those adopted by other states. The order is set to expire on April 30, which puts Texas on track to match the federally suggested timeline. 
  UTAH 
  Population:  about 3.2 million
  Unemployment:  3.6%
  Gov. Gary Herbert announced on April 17 his “ Utah Leads Together Plan 2.0 ,” which addresses steps to “return to normal.” 
  The plan introduces a number of measures, including the start of elective surgeries and opening of many businesses in May. 
  “This is about finding an appropriate balance,” Herbert said in his press conference on the Friday. “It’s not just only about healthcare, it’s also concern about the livelihood of those we represent too. And it’s not one versus the other, they are in fact combined together."
  Additionally, Herbert is reopening many of Utah’s state parks, effective immediately. 
  Residents can use the parks for recreational activity, but they must adhere to local orders regarding social distancing and curfews. 
  According to FOX 13 , much of the parks in eastern Utah have restricted access to county residents. 
  VERMONT 
  Population:  about 624,000
  Unemployment:  3.2%
  Gov. Phil Scott announced on April 17 that he would initiate a phased plan to ease restrictions in his state.
  Effective April 20, businesses that meet the  new standards for health and safety  in Vermont will be allowed to operate with crews or teams of no more than 2 people. Businesses that Scott expects to immediately meet the new standard include appraisers, attorneys, realtors and construction operations.
  The governor also passed a measure requiring face coverings to aid the phased recovery.
  “We’re seeing some promising results and continue to trend below even the best-case scenarios predicted in recent forecasting,” Scott said. “This is all a result of the hard work and sacrifice of Vermonters across the state, and I can’t thank you enough.”
  Vermont has maintained a " Stay Home, Stay Safe " policy since March 25.
  WYOMING 
  Population:  About 579,000
  Unemployment:  3.7%
  While Wyoming has not issued a "stay-at-home" order, Gov. Mark Gordon issued three major directives, which fall just short of "stay-at-home":  school closures, restricting businesses to curbside service or delivery services  and  limiting gatherings to no more than 10 people .
  Gordon  extended the orders  until April 30 and added a measure requiring all out-of-state visitors to quarantine for 14 days.
  While he has not issued a "stay-at-home" order, Gordon did declare a state of emergency and appealed for federal assistance.
  "Though Wyoming has not reached the dire situations of some states, this declaration will help us to prepare and mobilize resources when we need them," Gordon said in a news release. "I look forward to a swift response to our request from the federal government."
  CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP 
  Fox News' Lucia Suarez contributed to this report. 
 