
  
  Jeanine Áñez, Bolivia’s interim president, announced a nationwide, 14-day "total quarantine" starting Sunday to combat the spread of the novel coronavirus, according to Bolivian state media agency ABI.
  Áñez said that Bolivians should "be at home 24 hours a day" and that only one person per family can leave at a time to go shopping. 
  Pharmacies, hospitals and health centers will remain open as normal, she said, adding that public and private transport will be suspended and that permits will be given to employees in sectors that remain open.
  There are 22,782 cases of the novel coronavirus in the United States, according to CNN Health’s tally of cases that are detected and tested in the United States through US public health systems.
  At least 281 people have died. The total includes cases from all 50 states, the District of Columbia and other US territories, as well as all repatriated cases.
  
  
  Despite federal guidelines, President Trump Saturday suggested  health care workers sanitize and reuse masks  when treating coronavirus patients, rather than "throwing away" masks that are in short supply.
  Suggesting that health care workers instead clean and reuse the masks, the President said: 
  It is unclear which type of mask the President was describing, but FDA guidelines for the common N95 respirator masks state they "should not be shared or reused."
  Neither the FDA nor CDC guidelines suggest the possibility of sanitizing masks for safe reuse.
  
   
  
  
  St. Louis Mayor Lyda Krewson has issued a mandatory "stay at home order" for city residents beginning 6 p.m. Monday "to prevent further spread" of coronavirus.
  The new restrictions will last for 30 days, Krewson said at a press conference Saturday. Thirty days was chosen because it spans the approximate length of two Covid-19 incubation cycles.
  Residents are allowed to go to the grocery store, doctor's office, pharmacies and other preapproved types of businesses as long as a six-foot distance is kept between one another. 
  An 82-year-old woman in Chile died from coronavirus, making her the nation's first death, according to the country's health ministry Saturday. 
  The woman had other conditions, including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, the health ministry said. 
  The woman attended a family gathering of approximately 20 people on March 4 and that four people in the family "cluster" have tested positive for coronavirus, the health ministry said.
  The Ugandan Ministry of Health announced the country's first case of coronavirus Saturday on the ministry’s Twitter account.
  The ministry said the patient is a 36-year-old Ugandan man who arrived in the country on Saturday after taking an Ethiopian Airlines flight from Dubai. The patient showed symptoms that included high fever and poor appetite.
  Ugandan Health Minister Dr. Jane Ruth Aceng said the passenger was identified by a temperature check in the airport.
  "The passenger manifest has been retrieved and all contacts are known as we are in position of the passports of all the travelers that came on that plane," Aceng said.
  The city of Berlin limited gatherings to no more than 10 people Saturday. Restaurants in the city can only offer takeout and delivery. 
  The tightened restrictions in Germany's capital come a day after the southern state of Bavaria issued restrictions of movement for its residents, allowing only those who have a reason to leave their homes. 
  Missouri Gov. Mike Parson said the social distancing order he announced Friday will go into effect at 12:01 a.m. Monday and last until April 6 unless it is extended.
  At a Saturday press conference, Parson said:
  In addition, the filing and/or payment of state income taxes has been extended to July 15 and an automatic extension of driver's license renewals and vehicle registrations by two months has been granted. 
  
  
  Lebanese Security Forces are implementing a plan to prevent people from leaving their homes to contain the spread of coronavirus in the country, Lebanese Prime Minister Hassan Diab said during a press briefing Saturday.
  Diab asked the Lebanese people to cooperate with the government. 
  "I call upon you to implement a self-curfew, because the state alone cannot face this crawling epidemic, the responsibility here is, an individual, social and official responsibility, we are in grave danger, and our victory can only be achieved through the integration of the state, the society and the citizen."
  Earlier Saturday, the Lebanese Minister of Public Health Hamad Hassan tweeted that the country has "slipped into the (virus) outbreak" phase, as the number of cases increased by 81 cases in the last 48 hours.
  On Sunday, Lebanese Minister of Information Manal Abdul Samad said in a press conference that "public and private gatherings are banned" and that people are "obligated to stay in their homes unless there is an extreme necessity" to leave them.
 