This briefing has ended. Follow our  latest coverage of the coronavirus pandemic . 
  Scientists around the world are competing to develop a  vaccine to stop the coronavirus , and in this race, a laboratory at Oxford University has a big head start.
  Most other teams have had to begin with small clinical trials of a few hundred participants just to demonstrate that their vaccines are safe to use in humans, before they can start to gauge whether their inventions actually work.
  But scientists at Oxford’s  Jenner Institute  had already proved in previous trials that similar inoculations — including one last year against another coronavirus — were harmless to humans.
  That has enabled them to leap ahead to the next step and schedule tests involving more than 6,000 people by the end of next month, hoping to show that their vaccine not only is safe, but also works.
  The Oxford scientists now say that with an emergency approval from regulators, the first few million doses of their vaccine could be available by September — at least several months ahead of any of the other announced efforts — if it proves to be effective.
  It is impossible to know at this stage whether any vaccine will work, or which will be the first to emerge as a success. But there is promising news about Oxford’s candidate.
  Scientists at the National Institutes of Health’s  Rocky Mountain Laboratory  in Montana last month inoculated six rhesus macaque monkeys with the Oxford vaccine. The animals were then exposed to heavy quantities of the virus that is causing the pandemic — exposure that had consistently sickened other monkeys in the lab. More than 28 days later all six were healthy, said Vincent Munster, the researcher who conducted the test.
  More than one vaccine will be needed, experts say, because one might work more effectively than another in children or older people, or might be cheaper or easier to administer.
  In many cities, doctors, nurses and other health care workers have been celebrated with choruses of applause and cheers from windows and rooftops for providing the front-line defense against the pandemic.
  But when a veteran nurse went on national television in Mexico recently, she made a plea on behalf of her fellow health care workers: Please stop assaulting us.
  Nurses working under her auspices had been viciously attacked around the country at least 21 times, accused of spreading the coronavirus. Across Mexico, dozens of attacks on health care workers have been reported since the start of the outbreak. 
  In the state of Jalisco, nurses reported being blocked from public transportation because of their occupation. A nurse in the state of Sinaloa said she had been drenched with chlorine while walking along the street. And in the city of Mérida, a nurse said he had been hit with an egg thrown by someone passing on a motorcycle.
  It is not just Mexico.
  In other countries, too, health care workers have been not lauded but stigmatized as vectors of contagion. They have been assaulted, abused and ostracized.
  In the Philippines, attackers doused a nurse with bleach, blinding him. In India, a group of medical workers was chased by a stone-throwing mob. In Pakistan, a nurse and her children were evicted from their apartment building.
  [Update:  Unified in coronavirus lockdown, India splinters over reopening .] 
  Many nurses no longer wear their uniforms as they commute for fear of being hurt, said the official who went on television, Fabiana Zepeda Arias, chief of nursing programs for Mexico’s Social Security Institute.
  “We can save your lives,” she said at a news conference, where she had to fight back tears. 
  “Please help us take care of you.”
  France’s government will reveal its strategy for reopening the country on Tuesday, but it is facing a backlash for trying to rush the plan through a parliamentary vote on the same day.
  Édouard Philippe, the prime minister, is scheduled to address France’s lower house of Parliament on Tuesday to present a set of steps to gradually relax the country’s lockdown starting on May 11, the deadline set by President Emmanuel Macron.
  The government plans to hold the vote after a short debate, giving lawmakers little time to go over the details, which has infuriated opposition lawmakers. Some are also angry that the vote is expected to include approval for digital tracking of people and their contacts as a way of containing the virus —  a contentious topic in France  — when previously lawmakers had expected a separate vote on that question.
  But with the backing of Mr. Macron and Mr. Philippe, and the president’s La République en Marche party in control of the chamber, the measure is expected to pass.
  Olivier Faure, the head of the Socialist party,  told the Cnews broadcaster  on Monday that as France was preparing to leave its confinement, the authorities were “confining democracy.” Even some members of Mr. Macron’s party expressed frustration with the speedy schedule.
  “How can the legislator serenely decide on a deconfinement plan that is fundamental for the coming months when he will discover it just minutes before the vote?” a group of them  wrote in a letter .
  France has had nearly 130,000 confirmed infections of the new coronavirus and more than 23,000 deaths.
  After weeks of criticism over mask shortages, French authorities said that they would provide millions of washable, reusable cloth masks to the public this week, and millions more medical masks to health care workers in May.
  A pale but vigorous-sounding Prime Minister Boris Johnson returned to work on Monday, declaring that the coronavirus that nearly killed him was like an “unexpected and invisible mugger” the British people had begun to wrestle to the floor but had not yet fully disabled.
  For all his determined brio, Mr. Johnson’s message to his lockdown-weary nation was somber, underscoring the hard choices that Britain faces as the economy languishes and the death toll from the virus soars above 21,000.
  Mr. Johnson, who was  discharged from the hospital  only two weeks ago, signaled that the government would keep some social-distancing measures in place for the foreseeable future. To lift them too soon, he warned, would mean “not only a new wave of death and disease but also an economic disaster.”
  The government has said it will reassess  the lockdown  on May 7, and it is likely to relax some restrictions. But it is lagging badly in testing and contact tracing, which experts view as a precondition for reverting to a more normal status, like in South Korea, which  pioneered an ambitious national testing program .
  With the daily death toll in hospitals falling, there is evidence that Britain has passed the peak of infections. Mr. Johnson emphasized the National Health Service’s success in scaling up capacity, which ensured that hospitals have not been overwhelmed in Britain as they were in northern Italy.
  But the government once hoped to hold the number of fatalities to 20,000, a goal it could now miss by 10,000 or more.
  Professor Neil Ferguson, an epidemiologist at Imperial College London who is an influential adviser to the government, warned on Sunday that easing the restrictions too abruptly could result in more than 100,000 additional deaths from a second wave of infections.
  Britain has also fallen short in providing doctors and nurses with masks and gloves. And it had faced criticism for  its secrecy over the membership  and deliberations of a scientific panel that advises the government on key decisions.
  On Monday, Downing Street announced a minor concession by saying it would name the members of the panel — the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies, known as SAGE — but only if they agreed to be publicly identified.
  Airbus, one of the world’s largest manufacturers, issued a startling warning on Monday, saying that it could go out of business, as oil prices fell sharply again over the pandemic-induced global recession, wreaking havoc on major industries. 
  The coronavirus slowdown, job losses and stay-at-home orders have hit transportation especially hard, and demand for fuel has plummeted. Most  scheduled airline flights  have been canceled because of the pandemic and airlines have cut back, postponed or simply called off orders for new planes.
  “We are bleeding cash at an unprecedented speed, which may threaten the existence of our company,” Guillaume Faury, Airbus’s chief executive, wrote in a letter to the company’s 134,000 employees. “We face a severe and immediate imbalance between our revenues and costs.”
  Airbus, headquartered in France and with operations in many countries, is the world’s largest maker of airliners.
  Oil storage facilities are full or nearly so, and though major oil-producing countries have agreed to cut output, analysts and investors say  it isn’t nearly enough . Last week, the price of West Texas Intermediate crude  fell below zero for the first time  before rebounding, as traders who had already contracted to buy oil for delivery in May saw that they would have nowhere to sell it and nowhere to put it.
  The price of West Texas crude oil fell more than 20 percent by Monday evening, dropping below $13 a barrel, and the benchmark Brent crude declined more than 6 percent, going under $20 a barrel. Oil prices have declined more than 70 percent this year, and had not gone as low as they are now since the 1990s.
  Despite the bad news, global stock indexes were up modestly on Monday. The S&P 500 rose more than 1 percent. European benchmarks rose 1 to 3 percent after a broadly higher day in Asia, with shares in Japan leading the region; the Nikkei 225 index was up 2.71 percent.
  Authorities in Bangladesh have given the green light to resume operations at  garment factories , which make up a large part of the national economy, but some workers fear they might get the coronavirus by returning to cramped factory floors.
  Around 1,800 of 7,620 garment and textile factories have reopened in recent days after a strict lockdown that shut most of the economy in an already poor country.
  “We reopened industry partially and asked factory owners to follow health protocol and  ensure health safety for workers ,” said Mohammed Abdus Salam, a vice president of Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association. “Many factories have orders for next winter season starting in September. We have no other choice of starting work this time to complete the whole process of production.”
  Nazma Akter, president of a garments workers’ union said, “I have received complaints from some workers of a few factories that physical distancing and other health safety measures have not been maintained properly.”
  “The owners reopened factories hurriedly and arbitrarily,’’ she added. “If the virus spreads again among the workers, this won’t be a big problem only for the industry but also for the country.”
  Farhad Hossain Khan, a superintendent of Industrial Police, said garment workers had protested on Sunday and Monday in industrial areas.
  “Some workers protested, demanding their due wages, some workers protest demanding reopening of their factories. We solved problems through dialogue with workers and owners,” he said, adding that the police continued monitoring to ensure worker safety.
  The Bangladesh government announced a countrywide shutdown from March 26 to halt the spread of the coronavirus. The authorities have asked people to stay home and suspended travel inside the country by air, road and train. The country recorded its first infections on March 8 and has reported around 6,000 infections and 150 deaths.
  As the virus spread around the world, women — whether in China, the United States, or Italy — were less likely to become acutely ill, and far more likely to survive. That made doctors wonder: Could hormones produced in greater quantities by women be at work?
  Scientists in New York and California are now testing the hypothesis, dosing men with sex hormones for limited durations in small clinical trials.    
  Doctors at the Renaissance School of Medicine at Stony Brook University in New York are treating Covid-19 patients with estrogen in an effort to boost their immune systems. 
  Next week, their colleagues at Cedars-Sinai in Los Angeles will begin treating patients with another hormone that is predominantly found in women, progesterone, which has anti-inflammatory properties and can potentially prevent harmful overreactions of the immune system.
  “There’s a striking difference between the number of men and women in the intensive care unit, and men are clearly doing worse,” said Dr. Sara Ghandehari, a pulmonologist and intensive care physician who is the principal investigator for the progesterone study. 
  Some experts who study sex differences in immunity, however, warned that hormones may fail to be the magic bullet that some are hoping for; even elderly women with Covid-19 are outliving their male peers, and there is a drastic reduction in levels of hormones for women after menopause. 
  In other science news, preliminary results on the use of one rheumatoid arthritis drug to help coronavirus patients  indicated that it did not benefit  people who were hospitalized but not on ventilators. 
  Doctors around the world have been dosing seriously ill coronavirus patients with rheumatoid arthritis drugs that can squelch immune responses, believing that many people were dying because their immune systems were going into overdrive. 
  The preliminary drug trial results concerned sarilumab, marketed as Kevzara and made by Regeneron and Sanofi.
  Civil-defense sirens sounded on Monday night to signal the start of Israel’s solemn Memorial Day observance, but unlike in ordinary years, when the moment halts traffic, the remembrance arrived with most of the country already on lockdown because of the coronavirus pandemic.
  Speaking at the Western Wall in Jerusalem, President Reuven Rivlin of Israel sought to console those who were mourning fallen soldiers or victims of terrorism alone, at home, rather than “wrapped in the embrace of those who love them.”
  The virus-related restrictions were a boon, however, to an alternative ceremony that for 15 years has drawn together bereaved families from both sides of the Israel-Palestine conflict. The live-streamed event reached its biggest audience yet, organizers said, with at least 170,000 viewers.
  Hagai Yoel, an Israeli whose older brother was killed in 2002 on a military rescue mission in Jenin, said he couldn’t bear to imagine his 13-year-old son in uniform in five years. “I know that in order to resolve a conflict, both sides have to give up on something, because If I take it all, the other side will remain frustrated and despairing,” Mr. Yoel said.
  And Yaqub al-Rabi, whose wife, Aisha, was killed in 2018 by Israeli settlers who stoned their car, said he wanted to “convey to Israeli society, and to the whole world, a message born from my bleeding wound.”
  “We all lose victims to this conflict,” he said. “It doesn’t tell apart soldiers and civilians, women and men, children and adults. Or those taking part and bystanders. This conflict is man-made. And humans can end it.”
  The Mexican government has almost entirely emptied its network of migrant detention centers, deporting the people in them, to prevent the spread of the coronavirus among detainees, the authorities announced.
  A detainee population that reached more than 3,700 last month is down to 106, with some of the system’s 65 centers now shut, officials said.
  In the past seven weeks, as the pandemic worsened in Mexico, the authorities deported 3,653 migrants to El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras.
  The Mexican government cast its decision to clear out the system as a humanitarian act in response to recommendations from government health officials and national and international groups.
  The United Nations as well as human rights groups and migrants’ advocates in Mexico and the United States have been pressuring the Mexican government to release detainees for fear that contagion could easily spread through the system.
  In recent weeks, detainees in several centers launched protests, saying that overcrowding, poor sanitation and inadequate medical care were perfect conditions for an outbreak. Some of the protests turned violent, resulting in injuries and the death of a detainee.
  Mexican officials said that so far, no migrant in the detention system has tested positive for Covid-19.
  “A pandemic is not the time to have people in close proximity to one another,” said Christopher Gascon, chief of the Mexico office for the International Office for Migration, an inter-governmental group.
  With the flow of migrants through Mexican territory at almost a standstill during the pandemic, the detention system will likely remain mostly empty for the foreseeable future. The Mexican government emphasized, however, that it was continuing to enforce migration laws in its territory.
  The Afghan government announced on Monday that it was releasing 12,000 prisoners, in addition to 10,000 already in the process of being released, as the pandemic spreads across the country and prisons remain overcrowded.
  The virus is spreading rapidly across Afghanistan, which is in the midst of  a war between the government and the Taliban . The United Nations said on Monday that the fighting had killed 533 civilians and wounded 766 others in the first quarter of the year.
  The country of roughly 32 million has officially registered 1,703 coronavirus cases, but those numbers are a  low estimate, as testing  is extremely limited.
  The prisoner release, once complete, would set free more than 60 percent of the country’s 36,000 inmates. Rashid Totakhel, the head of Afghanistan’s prison authority, said the country was holding more prisoners than the capacity for 18,000 inmates.
  “It should be implemented immediately,” Mr. Totakhel said about the latest decree on the release.
  Excluded from the count are  5,000 Taliban members who are expected to be freed  as part of the peace deal between the government and the insurgent group. The Afghan government and the insurgents are locked in disagreements over their releases. While the Taliban want their members released at once, the Afghan government has been releasing them in waves of 100 or less.
  Philippe Lazzarini began his new job as the head of the United Nations Agency for Palestinian refugees on April 1 with major challenges ahead: the Trump administration had  cut funding  for his organization, and his predecessor  had resigned  amid an investigation into alleged misconduct.
  But Mr. Lazzarini’s first problem was how to get to work.
  Beirut, the site of his previous job, is only 150 miles as the crow flies from Jerusalem, where he is now based. But the coronavirus has closed airports and borders, adding complications to the Middle East’s already complicated layout. Hostility between Lebanon and Israel has kept their shared border shut for years.
  Before the pandemic, Mr. Lazzarini could have flown from Beirut to Amman, Jordan, and then driven to Jerusalem, about a four-hour trip, but the planes are grounded.
  So for about 10 days, his staff worked to convince officials from four countries to open their borders so he could pass. On Monday, he finally made the nine-hour trip, using four teams of drivers and security people to cross three borders.
  Leaving Beirut at 8 a.m., he drove to the Syrian border, where the Syrians took his temperature before allowing him to enter and meet his new convoy.
  From there he drove through Damascus south to the Jordanian border, where his car was sprayed down with disinfectant.
  He met his third convoy there and drove to the Allenby Bridge, which spans the Jordan River to the West Bank. A new convoy there took him to Jerusalem.
  Easing the journey, Mr. Lazzarini, 56, said by video chat, was the surprising lack of traffic.
  “Besides the cities, the roads are empty,” he said, and so were the border crossings. “There was absolutely no line.”
  Mr. Lazzarini will remain in self-quarantine in his new home for 14 days, electronically overseeing his organization’s nearly 30,000 employees, who provide services to millions of Palestinian refugees.
  “I will be locked down for two weeks, but I will be virtually very active,” he said.
  Face masks become mandatory for those using public transport and in most shops across Germany on Monday, as  the country gradually reopens  despite worries that the loosening of measures could be too much too soon.
  Guidelines agreed to by federal and state governments allow states to make the final decision on reopening stores and schools as well as the rules on masks, leading to a hodgepodge of policies across the country.
  In the western state of North Rhine-Westphalia, for example, wearing a mask is mandatory at bus stops, train stations, banks, post offices and gas stations, while Berlin has decided not to require masks in shops. The timing of when new rules go into effect also differs state by state, as do the fines for those who do not comply with the measures.
  Chancellor Angela Merkel warned  last week that loosening rules too quickly might be “foolhardy,” since new infections are usually detected days after the transmission has occurred.
  “Let us not squander what we have achieved,” she told German lawmakers on Thursday.
  The chancellor and state governors are to meet again on May 6 to discuss the progress and discuss any further loosening of the rules. To date, Germany has had at least  155,193 confirmed coronavirus infections and 5,750 deaths .
  Masks also became compulsory in shops and on public transport in the Hungarian capital of Budapest on Monday. Elsewhere in Europe, other nations have begun chart out a gradual reopening.
  After curbing one of the highest per capita rates of coronavirus infection in Europe, Switzerland allowed a limited number of businesses to reopen on Monday at the start of what authorities have billed as a three-step program to relax its national lockdown.
  Salons, garden centers and florists are returning to work as the authorities ease controls on businesses that do not involve close personal contact or crowds of people. A restriction limiting funerals to immediate family has also been lifted. Switzerland is not enforcing the public wearing of masks, but a ban on gatherings of more than five people remains in place.
  More than 29,000 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Switzerland, and at least 1,337 have died of the virus, official statistics show, levels of infection largely eclipsed by the scale of the crises in neighboring Italy and Spain. But the cautious relaxation of controls reflects a rate of infection measured per million of population that ranks fifth in the world — higher than the United States, Britain or France.
  The White House canceled the coronavirus briefing it had scheduled for Monday, after  heavy criticism of President Trump’s  handling of the pandemic. But less than two hours later, the briefing was back on .
  
  Earlier in the day, she had said the briefings might resume later in the week in a new format.
  In the news conference Mr. Trump said that he believed China “could have stopped” the coronavirus and that the U.S. would conduct “serious investigations” into the outbreak.
  “We believe it could have been stopped at the source,” he said Monday. “It could have been stopped quickly and it wouldn’t have spread all over the world.”
  The president, who had taken center stage at the briefings for seven weeks, spent much of the weekend railing on Twitter about the news media, and did not meet with reporters either Saturday or Sunday, calling the briefings  “not worth the time & effort.” 
  Also on Monday, the government’s trouble-plagued small business loan program resumed after a new infusion of money, and House Democrats announced an investigation into Mr. Trump’s decision to halt funding to the World Health Organization.
  Demand for the small business loans was so heavy that the government computer system handling applications crashed in less than an hour on Monday. The program was created early this month to help small businesses keep paying their workers; interest rates were set very low and in some cases the loans can be forgiven.
  But  dozens of large companies also received loans , the money was channeled through banks that often favored familiar customers, the program quickly ran through its initial $349 billion allocation, and many small businesses were shut out.
  Congress and Mr. Trump approved an additional $310 billion, and the program has restarted.
  The president, who has been widely accused of mishandling the crisis, has repeatedly deflected blame onto others, particularly the World Health Organization, a United Nations agency whose main source of funds in the U.S. government. Mr. Trump said he would cut off that support.
  The House Foreign Affairs Committee said it would investigate the move, which it called a “political distraction” from the administration’s failings.
  In a letter to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, Representative Eliot L. Engel of New York, the committee chairman, wrote, “Attacking the W.H.O., rather than the Covid-19 outbreak, will only worsen an already dire situation by undermining one of our key tools to fight the spreading disease.” 
  As the  toll from the coronavirus continues to climb steadily , countries are putting together the pieces    for the next phase of their response after either gradually lifting stringent lockdown measures or announcing plans to do so.
  The coronavirus pandemic has now killed more than 200,000 people and sickened more than 2.9 million worldwide,  according to data collected by The New York Times . The actual toll is almost certainly higher, and a Times review of mortality data in 12 countries showed that  official tallies have undercounted deaths  during the outbreak, largely because of limited testing.
  Still, the official numbers offer a sense of the scale of the pandemic, which has spread at a relentless pace. The official global death count  passed 100,000  on April 10, just over two weeks ago.
  The  United States has by far the world’s largest known outbreak , with more than 950,000 confirmed infections and a death toll approaching 50,000.
  Despite the high number of cases and fatalities,  several states are going ahead with plans to restart their economies , even though the United States does not have the kind of testing infrastructure that experts say is necessary to open up. 
  Many Americans are confronted with conflicting messages from local politicians eager to reopen businesses and public health officials urging them to stay home. And governors fear the lure of summer sunshine will make social distancing an even greater challenge. 
  Similar calculations were being made around the world, as countries once ravaged by the outbreak — like Italy, Spain and Britain — but now apparently past their initial peak in cases take tentative steps toward restarting public life. 
  
  The construction site at Notre-Dame cathedral in Paris stirred with workers on Monday, more than a month after the coronavirus pandemic forced the authorities  to shut down the site and cancel commemorative events  intended to mark one year since fire devastated the Paris landmark.
  But actual renovation work is still weeks away. 
  Those who returned to the site on Monday were tasked with reorganizing the “base camp,” where workers suit up and shower, adjusting the facilities to lessen the risk of infection and allow for social distancing measures. 
  Gen. Jean-Louis Georgelin, a former army chief of staff named by President Emmanuel Macron to oversee Notre-Dame’s renovation, said on Monday that workers could not report back on the job “if we do not give them safe working conditions.”
  “We need to completely adapt this area to the necessary measures to face the pandemic,” General Georgelin  told Europe 1 radio .
  Once appropriate measures are in place, workers will be able to pick up the renovation work where it left off a month and a half ago, starting with the delicate removal of thousands of charred scaffolding poles that still cling to the top of the cathedral.
  Mr. Macron set a strict five-year deadline to finish renovation work, wanting it to be done in time for the city to host the 2024 Summer Olympics. Some critics have called that goal unrealistic, given a series of delays. The authorities say they hope to reopen the cathedral for religious services in 2024, not to finish the renovation completely.
  
  President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in a nationwide address, announced Monday that Turkey’s numbers of Covid-19 infections were improving but that restrictions would remain in place until the end of May.
  Turkey has reported more than 110,000 confirmed cases of the virus, and 2,900 deaths. Official results show that the rate of confirmed cases and deaths has begun to flatten.
  “The end of the tunnel is now visible,” Mr. Erdogan said, adding that the government would soon announce a schedule for easing restrictions.
  Turkey has not imposed a full lockdown all the time, to allow some businesses to continue working. It has imposed a total curfew on 31 metropolitan centers on the weekends, and Mr. Erdogan said that will continue this weekend. 
  The rest of the week, people are asked to stay at home and practice social distancing. Those over 65 years old and under 20 years old, however, are confined to their homes. (An exception allows    teenagers to work in technical schools making masks.)
  New rules requiring face masks in public and a ban on intercity travel would remain in place until the end of the fasting month of Ramadan, Mr. Erdogan said. He promised that the country would celebrate doubly at the festival of Eid at the end of May.
  Kenya has demoted a top scientist in charge of overseeing the country’s coronavirus testing, raising concerns and prompting criticism about the timing of the government’s directive.
  Dr. Joel Lutomiah, the deputy director of the Center for Virus Research at the Kenya Medical Research Institute, was dismissed from the role after test results were delayed, according  to local news reports . Scientists at the institute, however, said that he was fired for standing up to government officials and demanding more funding    during this crucial period.
  Established in 1979, the institute plays a vital role in tackling diseases — including malaria and H.I.V. — and is the top testing facility in Kenya for the coronavirus. Last week, President Uhuru Kenyatta  said  the institute was involved in efforts to find a vaccine for Covid-19, the disease caused by the new coronavirus. Kenya has so far announced 363 cases and 14 deaths from the virus.
  The government has defended its decision to fire Dr. Lutomiah from the leadership role, saying the move was intended to improve the timely release of test results. Kenya’s preparedness and response to the coronavirus have been seen in a mostly positive light so far, with the government conducting thousands of tests, suspending international flights a week after reporting its first case and imposing a partial lockdown on counties reporting high cases.
  But several scientists and activists said on Monday that  they were appalled  by the decision, with some calling it “unwise.” John Githongo, head of the grass-roots advocacy group Inuka Kenya,  wrote on Twitter  that it was “a case of disastrous timing.”
  
  Under pressure from religious institutions, Iran’s government announced on Sunday that it would  reopen some 127 religious sites , including shrines and mosques, in about a week around the country, which has endured one of the world’s worst coronavirus outbreaks.
  President Hassan Rouhani said that Friday Prayer, canceled since the middle of March, would resume at the reopened sites but that protocols would have to be observed. 
  As Iran started  gradually lifting restrictions  in the past two weeks and reopening businesses in an attempt to salvage its battered economy, the calls to open religious shrines grew louder. The announcement coincides with the month of Ramadan, when Muslims fast and gather nightly for communal prayers and sermons.
  The closing and opening of religious sites, particularly the two prominent Shia shrines in Qom and Mashhad, have been a source of contention between health officials and the religious authorities. Iran’s coronavirus outbreak started in the city of Qom and spread across Iran and to multiple neighboring countries through pilgrims who had visited the shrine. Mr. Rouhani was widely criticized for not enforcing a swift shutdown of    crowded religious sites. 
  The hard-line newspaper Kayhan, a mouthpiece for Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the country’s supreme leader, wrote that if parks and shopping malls opened then mosques should open, too, and claimed “religious shrines had a small role in spreading the coronavirus.”
  The Health Ministry’s latest tally on Sunday was 90,481 infections and 5,710 dead, although health experts and local government officials have said the numbers are several times higher than the official account.
  Mr. Rouhani has repeatedly said that the peak of the virus has passed, but health officials have warned that lifting restrictions too quickly could rapidly lead to a resurgence of the virus and that at least three provinces are still considered red zones.
  “Iran is still in the escalation trajectory of contracting coronavirus and reaching the peak,” said Hossein Erfani, the Health Ministry’s head of infectious disease. “The public should not think the story of coronavirus is over and they can go around freely.”
  The top human rights official at the United Nations, Michelle Bachelet, urged countries on Monday not to use the pandemic as a pretext for repression, excessive use of force and mass arrests.
  A “toxic lockdown culture” has resulted in excessive, sometimes lethal use of force by police and security forces in some states. Nigerian security forces killed 20 people in the space of little more than three weeks in the course of Covid-19 enforcement measures. South African authorities are investigating dozens of allegations of corruption, rape and murder against police officers.    
  “Shooting, detaining, or abusing someone for breaking a curfew because they are desperately searching for food is clearly an unacceptable and unlawful response,” Ms. Bachelet said.
  “The public health emergency risks becoming a human rights disaster, with negative effects that will long outlast the pandemic itself,” she warned. 
  United Nations officials have raised also concerns that  emergency powers taken by Prime Minister Viktor Orban  of Hungary confer indefinite authority to rule by decree. The Cambodian prime minister, Hun Sen, is poised to take vaguely defined powers that would restrict rights and expand surveillance. Reports from China point to the detention of doctors, journalists and human rights defenders for diverging from the official narrative about the outbreak.
  The pandemic’s disproportionate impact on minorities in the United States has exposed endemic discrimination, the officials said. They also pointed to instances of racism and xenophobia in the United States and Europe.
  Countries should halt involuntary or forced returns of refugees and asylum seekers and secure their release from immigration detention, officials added, underscoring their high vulnerability to Covid-19.
  Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte’s plans to gradually reopen Italy have received a cool welcome, with business groups, regional presidents and even the Roman Catholic Church criticizing the criteria as insufficient and inconsistent.
  Mr. Conte said Sunday night that starting next Monday people would be allowed to visit relatives, parks could reopen and restaurants could start offering food for takeout, but the criticism underscored the difficulty leaders face in trying to balance economic growth and public health.
  Confcommercio, Italy’s largest business organization, denounced a potential “economic collapse of thousands of companies.” Carlo Sangalli, the president of the association, asked for an urgent meeting with the prime minister, warning that postponing the reopening of commercial activities risked “very serious damage.”
  Matteo Salvini, the opposition leader, threatened to organize a protest, though one that reflected the current state of affairs “with masks, at a distance, peaceful and determined.” Italy was the site of the first outbreak in Europe and has been hit the hardest, but, he wrote on Facebook, “The workers can no longer wait.”
  Italian journalists criticized the prime minister for steering clear of the plans initially associated with the lifting of lockdowns, known as Phase 2: The establishment of quarantine facilities for the infected, a network of coronavirus hospitals, improved testing and contact tracing.
  “Are coronavirus hospitals everywhere? Don’t know,” the journalist Annalisa Cuzzocrea wrote on Twitter. “Hotels for the asymptomatic positive? Don’t know. Swabs for every suspected case? Don’t know.”
  Local officials faulted the government for a nationwide approach that failed to differentiate between the wealthier northern regions, where the virus has flourished, and the economically fragile southern regions, which have been largely spared. Giovanni Toti, the president of the Liguria region, called the government’s plan “slow and blurry.”
  The Italian Episcopal Conference of Catholic Bishops criticized the extension of the ban on religious ceremonies, with the exception of funerals. “The Italian bishops cannot accept to see the freedom of worship compromised,” they wrote in a statement.
  But some experts have also warned that allowing greater movement by removing some restrictions on work when the number of daily infections is still in the thousands was a very risky move. “There are no doubts: With the reopening, the risk is very high,” Andrea Crisanti, the top scientific consultant on the virus in the Veneto region, told the newspaper Il Giornale, adding that opening up in the current situation means there is a chance “we will have to start from scratch.”
  New Zealand’s retailers, restaurants, construction sites and schools will start to reopen Tuesday, five weeks after Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern deployed a “go hard and go early” approach that has led to a  sharp decline in coronavirus infections. 
  The loosening of restrictions to a level three alert put an end to the country’s total lockdown after a week when the number of active infections in the country fell below 300. Only a single new case was reported on Monday.
  The easing makes room for what some other countries already allow — such as carryout food, small shopping trips and outdoor exercise, but travel beyond where people live is still discouraged, and schools will be reopening only online at first.
  Ms. Ardern praised New Zealanders’ efforts while also warning that eased restrictions did not signal a time to break out and celebrate.
  “We’re opening up our economy, but we’re not opening up people’s social lives,” she said.
  Ashley Bloomfield, New Zealand’s director general of health, said that transmission of the virus had been “eliminated,” meaning that health officials knew where all new cases were coming from, and were in position to test, track and trace any new outbreak.
  Ms. Ardern said that the next phase of the process — to reach zero cases and total elimination — would require additional vigilance from both the public and public health professionals.
  “To succeed we must hunt down the last few cases of the virus,” Ms. Ardern said. “This is like looking for a needle in a haystack.”
 