
  
  Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, wearing a face mask and speaking on Facebook Live, said he expects the results of his coronavirus test in the coming hours.
  “I believe in the next hours we will have the result from [my test] and from some other people who were with me,” Bolsonaro said, referring to others who traveled to the United States with him last weekend.
  Fabio Wajngarten, the president's press secretary,  tested positive for coronavirus  on Thursday, according an official statement from the president’s office.
  Wajngarten was with Bolsonaro on the US trip, during which the Brazilian president dined with President Trump at Mar-a-Largo. Wajngarten posted a picture of himself with Trump on Instagram a few days ago.
  House Democrats, at the moment, plan to move a bill addressing the coronavirus under suspension of the rules when a final deal is reached, according to two people involved.
  That means they can skip the rules committee so long as the bill has two-thirds support.
  The expectation is that the bill will pass easily if all parties sign off.
  While it's not final yet, that’s the way this is going.
  They're still working through some outstanding issues : The paid leave issue has been resolved by adding a tax credit to aid smaller employers, at the request of the White House.
  Final thoughts:  They are on the verge of a deal. Not there yet.
  US Southern Command — the geographic combatant command that oversees military activities in South America, Central America and the Caribbean — said in a statement today that there are currently “no reports of suspected or confirmed coronavirus (COVID-19) infections within the command,” following a visit by the Brazilian president and his team to the command this past weekend. 
  
  
  The Arsenal Football Club of the English Premier League announced today that head coach Mikel Arteta has tested positive for coronavirus.
  Arteta discussed the diagnosis, saying, “This is really disappointing but I took the test after feeling poorly. I will be at work as soon as I’m allowed.”
  
  
  Cleveland Cavaliers player Kevin Love announced on Instagram that he is donating $100,000 through his foundation to support the team's arena and support staff who have been impacted by the suspension of the NBA season.
  Here's a portion of his statement: 
  Illinois and the City of Chicago are mandating all large-scale events exceeding 1,000 individuals be cancelled for the next 30 days, according to Gov. J. B. Pritzker.
  According to Pritzker, Tuesday’s election will proceed as scheduled. 
  At this time, the City of Chicago and state are not recommending that school be cancelled, but Pritzker said they are monitoring the situation and asking schools to scale back on large assemblies, among other measures.
  Pritzker said Illinois is encouraging businesses across the state to consider letting their employees work remotely and for those who cannot, to encourage social distancing between employees.
  The Smithsonian Institute has released a statement saying, “all Smithsonian museums in Washington, DC, metropolitan area and New York City, including the National Zoo will temporarily close to the public starting Saturday, March 14.”
  The statement did not give an end date to the closures and said “updates on a week-to-week basis on our websites.”
  Numerous school districts around Georgia will be closing due to rising coronavirus concerns. 
  Here are some of the districts and when they are closing and for how long as of this afternoon:
  Portugal will close all educational establishments in order to try to contain the outbreak of coronavirus, the country's Prime Minister Antonio Costa said in a news conference on Thursday according to Portugal's state broadcaster RTP Noticias. 
  Cruise ships will be able to dock in Portugal, but only Portuguese passengers who are returning home will be allowed to disembark, Costa said according to the broadcaster.
  The government will also limit visits to nursing homes in order to protect the most vulnerable section of the population, he said.
  These measures will go into effect on Monday, RTP Noticias reported.
 