The British Government says it is working on an approach to “encourage” workers who have been placed on furlough as a result of the coronavirus pandemic to help with the harvest of British crops which is expected to start in June.
  He said the need for workers is not immediate because the harvest just started, but they do anticipate there will be "a need to help recruit staff for those months in June,” Eustice said.
  All patients have been discharged from the USNS Comfort, according to Northwell Health spokesperson Terry Lynam.
  The USNS Comfort, which has been docked in New York City harbor, treated 182 patients during the pandemic.
  Separately, the Javits Center is still treating roughly 84 patients, Lynam said.
  The USNS Comfort is still expected to depart at the end of the month, according to a United States Defense Official.
  The crew will stick around on the ship to do some work to get ready to depart, including disinfecting, cleaning the vessel, stowing medical equipment, and preparing the ship’s engines, the US Defense Official said.
  Getting the ship ready to depart will likely take several days, according to the official.
  The number of people killed by coronavirus in Italy has increased by 260 in the last 24 hours, bringing the total to 26,644 since the outbreak began, according to data released by the Italian Civil Protection Agency on Sunday.
  The death toll reported on Sunday is the lowest since March 14, according to a tally of data kept by CNN. 
  The total number of patients hospitalized with symptoms of the disease decreased by 161.
  
  Following President Trump’s press conference on Friday, Gov. Larry Hogan said his state experienced hundreds of calls from people across Maryland asking whether injecting or ingesting disinfectants was an effective way to combat coronavirus.
  Hogan emphasized that his state’s coronavirus response team has been trying to base all decisions on information provided by public health doctors and epidemiologists and that they “try to get those facts out to the public so they know exactly what’s going on.”
  New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said when it comes to moving forward, and thinking of solutions to problems, everyone should question why we do things the way we do.
  He said implementing new ways to safely reopen the economy will require making changes at a societal level.
  "People don't like change," Cuomo said. "We like control more than anything, right. So it's hard. It's hard to make change. It's hard to make change in your own life let alone on a societal collective level."
  He added: "If you don't change, you don't grow. And if you don't run the risk of change, you don't have the benefit of advancement."
  On the stress of a pandemic:  Cuomo said “do not underestimate the stress that this situation has created."
  The governor, speaking at a news conference Sunday, said the state is monitoring trends that domestic violence, substance abuse and mental health needs are all going up.
  He also said “some trends” suggest drug usage is increasing as well.
  New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said schools are necessary for a large scale business reopening, adding “you couldn’t really get to a maximum phase two without opening schools."
  At a news conference Sunday, Cuomo outlined a phased reopening plan that described "phase two" as the opening of certain essential businesses.
  Questions remain about whether the state can reopen for the rest of the school year, adding that many local districts are talking about summer school to make up for some lost time.
  “I’m not really comfortable getting too far ahead of ourselves," he said, adding that he did not want to try to predict anything farther than two weeks away.
  New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo outlined the state's phased reopening at a news conference Sunday saying it will be important to base the strategy on a "regional analysis."
  "Look at the regional analysis. Make a determination. And then monitor whatever you do," he said about the plan.
  The phases are:
  Cuomo said the second phase is "going to be up to businesses."
  Business have to do the matrix analysis themselves to determine how risky it would be for them to reopen, and then outline how they will put safety precautions in place, the governor added.
  There will be two weeks in between the phases to monitor the effects and determine the next steps, the governor said.
  Gov. Andrew Cuomo reported that 367 people died across New York over the past 24 hours from coronavirus, he said at a news conference today.
  There were 437 coronavirus-related deaths in New York on April 24.
  Cuomo added:  "We are now back to where we were on March 31st before we started this dramatic increase in the number of cases."
  The state of South Carolina has received 1.5 million surgical masks from China thanks to help from a business owner, state leaders announced in a press conference this morning.
  The masks arrived in partnership with Boeing on their Dreamlifter from China to Greenville, South Carolina, today.
  In a joint press conference, state leaders thanked Discommon owner Neil Ferrier who sourced the masks in China.
  The masks will be provided to healthcare workers at Prisma Healthcare as well as the Medical University of South Carolina in Charleston.
 