Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox.   Sign up here . 
  Bryan Cranston  questioned the sanity of both  President Trump  and his supporters in a fiery tweet presented with little context over the weekend.
  The “ Breaking Bad ” actor became the latest  Hollywood star to criticize Trump  and his administration as they respond to the ongoing  coronavirus pandemic . Clearly not happy with the way that Trump is guiding the country through this unprecedented time, Cranston took to Twitter on Saturday to take a jab at both the president and those that support him.
  “I've stopped worrying about the president's sanity. He's not sane,”  the 64-year-old actor wrote . “And the realization of his illness doesn't fill me with anger, but with profound sadness. What I now worry about is the sanity of anyone who can still support this deeply troubled man to lead our country.”
  TRAVELING DURING CORONAVIRUS: SHOULD YOU POSTPONE SPRING BREAK TRIPS? 
  While the actor didn’t say what prompted this rebuke of the president and his supporters, the tweet came as the news cycle was dominated by remarks Trump made during a recent coronavirus press briefing in which he  seemed to imply  injecting light and/or disinfectants like household cleaners into the body could act as a treatment for the coronavirus.
  CORONAVIRUS AT THE AIRPORT: HOW THE TSA IS FIGHTING OUTBREAK 
  "And then I see the disinfectant where it knocks it out in a minute. One minute. And is there a way we can do something like that by injection inside or, or almost a cleaning? Because you see it gets on the lungs and it does a tremendous number, so it will be interesting to check that. So that you're going to have to use medical doctors. But it sounds, it sounds interesting to me. So we'll see,” Trump said at the time. “But the whole concept of the light, the way it kills it in one minute, that's, that's pretty powerful.”
  On Friday, after the comments caught  severe backlash  from the public and medical experts alike, Trump  clarified his remarks , explaining that he was simply asking sarcastic questions to reporters.
  “I was asking a question sarcastically to reporters like you,” Trump said. “Disinfectant for doing this, maybe on the hands, would work. I was asking…when they use disinfectant it goes away in less than a minute.”
  CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP 
  He added: “I was asking a very sarcastic question to reporters in the room about disinfectants on the inside…that was done in a sarcastic way.”
 